Which strait separates the North and South islands of New Zealand?
In which city is the Doge's Palace?
Who plays Johnny Depp's uncle in the 1993 film Arizona Dream?
Which New Zealand golfer won the 2000 Australian Masters in Melbourne?
Which continent has the larger land mass: Africa or North America?
Aston, Aston, Rizzo, Stevenson, Gilvear: which 1980s group?
What name is given to the art of preparing, stuffing and mounting the skins of animals to make lifelike models?
Which artist was appointed court painter to Charles IV of Spain in 1786?
The name of which Roman god means 'shining father' in Latin?
What is the name of the dog in Punch and Judy shows?
What was the name of the Addams Family butler?
Which seven-a-side ball game is played in a swimming pool?
Which Roman Catholic organization takes its name from the Latin for 'God's work'?
Bamboozled is a film by which controversial US director?
Who starred opposite Pierce Brosnan in the remake of The Thomas Crown Affair?
Who directed the 1995 film Heat, which starred Al Pacino?
Of which French overseas region in South America is Cayenne the capital?
In which year did David Koresh and the Branch Davidians Christian cult hold a siege in Waco, Texas?
Which rock star was born Marvin Lee Aday?
Which 2000 film starred veteran actors Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner?
Of which planet is Phoebe a satellite?
How many counters has each player in a game of backgammon?
Which food item takes its name from the French for 'twice cooked'?
Who wrote The Thorn Birds?
Who wrote The Call of the Wild and White Fang?
Which common childhood illness related to shingles is also called varicella?
Which sign of the zodiac is also called The Waterbearer?
What is a cat-o'-nine-tails?
Of which Caribbean country is Montego Bay the main tourist centre?
Who wrote David Copperfield?
What name is given to the programs run by a computer, as opposed to the hardware?
In medicine, what name is given to a state of deep unconsciousness in which the subject is unrousable?
What are the flat, treeless plains of Argentina called?
Which bay of the Atlantic, between northern Spain and western France, is noted for its rough seas and high tides?
What was the first British film to take more than one hundred million dollars at the US box office?
What is the capital of Vietnam?
What name is given to members of the Roman Catholic Society of Jesus?
The name of which animal is an Aboriginal term meaning 'no water'?
Which animal has the biggest eyes of any living creature?
Which African statesman received the Freedom of the City of Cardiff in a ceremony in 1998?
Which Roman god of the sea is identified with the Greek god Poseidon?
Who directed The Maltese Falcon, The African Queen and The Dead?
Which French chemist and microbiologist devised vaccines for anthrax and rabies?
Which British admiral had an affair with Emma Hamilton?
What name is given to a dealer licensed to lend money on the security of an item of portable personal property?
In which card game, played with a deck of 32 cards, are the jacks known as bowers?
Who wrote Waiting for Godot?
The Wrigley Building is located in which US city?
What was first seriously advocated by a British builder, William Willett, in his 1907 pamphlet Waste of Daylight?
By the end of which period in Earth's history had most dinosaurs become extinct?
Calypso, cattleya and pogonia are types of which flower?
Who played Flint in a series of spy films?
Who performed the first surgery in England under antiseptic conditions?
Which part in the Munsters TV series was played by old-time film actress Yvonne de Carlo?
In which US state is the Mojave Desert?
Which former MI5 officer wrote Spycatcher?
About which event did Winston Churchill say "Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few"?
What sort of creature is a cotinga?
What is the name of the full moon closest to the Autumn Equinox?
What is a tsunami?
Which Irish surname means 'warlike one'?
What is the name given to a cross in the form of an 'X'?
The coronations of most of the French kings took place in which city in the Marne region of France?
In which country is the ski resort of Val Gardena?
Van Gogh cut of part of his own left ear during a quarrel with which other artist?
To which breed of dog was Longfellow referring when he wrote "A traveller, by the faithful hound, half buried in the snow was found"?
Who had an occasional role as Guinan, the female bartender, in the TV series Star Trek: The Next Generation?
What do the initials J S stand for in J S Bach?
Who wrote the opera La Boheme?
Michael Nesmith is associated with which 1960s pop group?
Who had a hit with On the Banks of the Ohio in 1971 and Hopelessly Devoted to You in 1978?
Robert Redford and Paul Newman played two 1920s conmen in which film?
Which Canadian singer recorded the albums Blue and Miles of Aisles?
Which device in a jet engine provides extra thrust for take-off or supersonic flight?
The film Jerry Maguire featured which sport?
What is the chief river of Ghana?
Which 2001 film about the Cuban missile crisis starred Kevin Costner?
Which epic poem by Dante begins on Good Friday in the year 1300?
Which German motor manufacturer was set up in 1937 to produce a 'people's car'?
The River Tamar forms a historic boundary between which two English counties?
Who played Sally Bowles in the film Cabaret?
Which fish is smoked and sold as finnan haddie?
What is corium?
Which Stanley Kubrick film was based on a Stephen King novel and starred Jack Nicholson?
'Indices' is the plural of which word?
Zr is the symbol of which chemical element?
Which drug is known in Australia as 'twang'?
To which part of the body does the adjective 'rhinal' refer?
What was the name of the character played by Tracey Ullman in the television drama series Ally McBeal?
In which play by Shakespeare does the character Beatrice appear?
Which US state is further east: Ohio or Wyoming?
'Bitser' is an Australian word for which animal?
Who succeeded Yuri Andropov as leader of the Soviet Union in 1984?
What was the name of the submarine in the TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea?
Which actor played James Bond in GoldenEye?
With which Italian motor company is the Agnelli family associated?
Of which Canadian province is St John's the capital?
Which English adventurer and courtier to Elizabeth I was executed in 1618?
In which country did the rottweiler originate?
Which Pulp Fiction actor starred in the remake of the movie Shaft?
Who wrote the novel Roots: The Saga of an American Family?
Which Turkish dish comprises thin layers of filo pastry containing nuts and honey?
Which colour is produced by adding together yellow and cyan?
Which disease carried by bark beetles was first described in The Netherlands in 1919?
What was invented by Sir Frank Whittle in 1930?
On which area of the moon did Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins make their landing on 20 July 1969?
For which film did Steven Spielberg win an Oscar for Best Director at the 1999 Academy Awards?
What is the British English word for the eggplant?
Which French town on the Scarpe River gave its name to a type of tapestry?
Which musical set in the slums of New York is based on Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet?
The movie Apocalypse Now is based on the book Heart of Darkness by which author?
The Quarrymen was the original name of which pop group?
What name is more commonly given to a tree of the genus Taxus?
What is the only form of gambling permitted in the British armed forces?
What is the name of Katharina's younger sister in Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew?
In The Pilgrim's Progress, what is the name of the hero?
In which novel by George du Maurier does the character Svengali appear?
Which island is also called Rapa Nui and Isla de Pascua?
Which Hebrew prophet picked up the mantle as successor to Elijah?
In Mary Shelley's novel, what is the first name of Dr Frankenstein?
To which novel by Robert Louis Stevenson is Catriona the sequel?
What is the subtitle of Dvorak's Symphony No 9 in E minor?
In which cartoon series do the characters Chef and Cartman appear?
Who wrote Great Expectations?
What is a champignon?
In which country is the port of Dieppe?
What does an ammeter measure?
What was the full name of the US president known as LBJ?
What is the common name for ethanoic acid?
What name was given to the literary movement in the USA in the 1950s of which William Burroughs and Jack Kerouac were prominent writers?
About 70 per cent of Venezuela's total oil production is obtained in and around which lake?
What nationality is author Gabriel Garcia Marquez?
In which country are the headquarters of the multinational company Nestlé?
In which play by Shakespeare do Elbow and Mistress Overdone appear?
What name is given to a Hindu prince ranking above a rajah?
By what name do we know the Bahia de los Cochinos on the coast of Cuba?
What was the real first name of jazz musician Bix Beiderbecke?
Which English poet wrote The Listeners?
With which sport is Lou Gehrig associated?
What name is given to the process of removing waste products from the blood?
Which French poet wrote Cautionary Tales?
What name was given to the settlers who established the first permanent colony in New England in 1620?
Which two primary colours are mixed to make purple?
What is a pashmina?
In what did Cleopatra supposedly bathe to remain beautiful?
Which popular female country and western singer was killed in a plane crash in March 1963?
What type of creature is a fulmar?
Whose tomb was discovered by Howard Carter and Lord Carnarvon in 1922?
Who was born the son of a customs official in Braunau, Upper Austria, in 1889?
Who was the first president of the United States of America?
Who was the youngest member of the Beatles?
Of which country is Managua the capital?
Who directed the film Back to the Future?
Which British composer wrote On Hearing the First Cuckoo in Spring?
What does a hippologist study?
Buster Bloodvessel was the frontman of which 1980s pop group?
Which cartoon bird was created by Walter Lantz?
Of which country is Bangui the capital?
For which novel is the Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes famous?
Which city in Switzerland was the headquarters of the League of Nations?
At which sport have Keiji, Okada and Yuko Hasama been world champions?
Which man set a world record of 10.2 seconds for the 100 metres sprint on 20 June 1936?
Who wrote the novel The Fourth Protocol?
Ljubljana is the capital of which republic of central Europe?
Which boardgame was invented by Alfred M Butts?
What is Kim Basinger's profession in the 1987 film Nadine?
In which US state is the port of Tarpon Springs?
In which European country is the ski resort of Obergurgl?
The Whit Sunday Islands lie off the coast of which Australian state?
What is the capital of Botswana?
Which bandleader born in 1891 was known in his early days as 'the King of Jazz'?
Which famous sea captain who commanded HMS Bounty died in 1817?
What is the colour of the ball worth six points in snooker?
Which prophet led the Israelites out of Egypt into the Promised Land?
Which genus of trees and shrubs includes the holly?
What is the sixth letter of the Greek alphabet?
In which European country is the formerly important gold-mining town of Tomsk?
What is the state capital of Pennsylvania?
In which sport is the term 'hookcheck' used?
In which game is a flat stone bounced across the surface of water?
Who was represented in Greek mythology as wearing winged sandals?
What is the common name for pyrites or iron pyrites?
What name is given to the permanent freezing of the ground in areas bordering on ice sheets?
What is the capital of Indonesia?
Which German composer wrote the opera Der Rosenkavalier?
In which country is the port of Jaffna?
What was the name of the official bodyguard of Roman emperors, created by Augustus?
Which archangel announced the birth of John the Baptist to Zechariah?
Which Canadian comedian wrote, directed and starred in Wayne's World and the Austin Powers films?
Who was the first woman to hold a seat in the British parliament?
Which playwright became president of Czechoslovakia in 1989?
What instrument was played by jazz great Coleman Hawkins?
Which is the northernmost of North America's five Great Lakes?
In which country is Montego Bay?
The ibex is a type of which animal?
Ice cream was first produced in which country in the 17th century?
A hussar was a light cavalryman from which country?
In which century did the Crimean War take place?
In which US state is the city of Tallahassee?
Which sport is central to the film Escape to Victory?
What nationality was the composer Antonin Dvorak?
Which pop star was born Harry Rodger Webb?
In which film did Arnold Schwarzenegger first star as a cyborg?
What is the capital of Queensland, Australia?
What is the official language of Mexico?
What is the standard monetary unit of Turkey?
Who wrote the poem Death Be Not Proud?
Which Canadian comedian teamed with John Belushi to form the Blues Brothers?
Who starred as Superman in the 1970s and 1980s film series?
Who was the alter ego of superhero Diana Prince?
Which singer was known as The White Lady of Soul?
Which TV celebrity had hits in the 1960s with Anyone Who Had a Heart and You're My World?
Which poem by Rudyard Kipling begins: "If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs…"?
More than 200 were killed in a terrorist bomb in Bali, the Euro became the common currency over the EU and the Queen Mother died; all in the same year – which?
Which early 20th century revolutionary said "A lie told often enough becomes the truth"?
To which genus do cherry and plum trees belong?
Which Eastern European capital stands on the River Vltava?
Which Canadian sprinter was stripped of his 100-metres gold medal in 1988 after failing a drugs test?
Who is the youngest of the Three Tenors?
Born Illich Ramirez Sanchez, by what name was the one-time world's most wanted terrorist better known?
Who wrote The Female Eunuch?
Who was the sick beggar cured of leprosy by Jesus?
In which country is the holiday resort of Phuket?
Which sea lies between Egypt and Saudi Arabia?
When You Wish Upon a Star is from which Disney film?
What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'non sequitur'?
In which ocean are the Maldive Islands?
Which Swedish actress starred in Casablanca and Gaslight?
What is the tallest living land mammal?
Which 1995 film was partly inspired by Jane Austen's novel Emma?
Which survey of England was started in 1086?
What is the most important and largest island in the Philippines?
From which drug are morphine and codeine derived?
In 79AD which town, other than Pompeii, was destroyed by the eruption of Vesuvius?
Which nine-a-side game was a forerunner of baseball?
By what name are smoked herring usually known in the UK?
Musician and human rights defender Mstislav Rostropovich, who died in 2007, was a virtuoso of which instrument?
The 'B' in Cecil B De Mille stands for what?
What is the name of the well-preserved Inca city discovered in 1911, named after the mountain that rises above it?
In 1962, who became the first American to orbit the Earth?
What name was given to the government of Germany from 1919 to 1933, named after the town in which the constitution was formulated?
In which film did Julie Andrews play Gertrude Lawrence?
In which great bay are the Nicobar Islands?
In 1986, Greg Le Mond was the first non-European to win which annual sporting event?
In the human body, what are controlled by the lumbrical muscles?
Which German physicist laid down the principles of quantum theory?
How many dozens are there in a gross?
Which variety of quartz is violet to purple in colour?
What is the name of the aircraft developed in 1969 in which two moveable nozzles direct the engines' thrust downwards for vertical take-off?
Which astronomer discovered the planet Uranus?
What device is used to transform sound energy into electrical energy?
Shogi is a Japanese form of which boardgame?
Which European capital has a skyline dominated by St Stephen's cathedral?
What nationality was the playwright Henrik Ibsen?
Who wrote the novel National Velvet?
What name is given to a negatively charged particle that is a constituent of all atoms?
In which French city was Joan of Arc burned at the stake?
For which gemstones is the Australian mining town of Coober Pedy famous?
Which American novelist wrote Imaginary Friends and Foreign Affairs?
The Day of the Jackal centres on the attempted assassination of which leader?
Which British boxer lost his world title to Marco Antonion Barrera in 2001?
Who produced the Star Wars and Indiana Jones series of films?
Which German tennis player won five successive Grand Slam tournaments in the 1980s?
Which US actor starred in High Noon and Mr Deeds Goes to Town?
What was the top grossing film in 1998 in the USA?
What does someone suffering from dysphagia have difficulty in doing?
Which English composer wrote five Pomp and Circumstance marches?
What was the name of the pet space-monkey in Lost in Space?
After whom is the month of July named?
Which Irish poet wrote The Isle of Innisfree?
In which English city is the National Railway Museum?
Which US football legend was called The Gipper?
What sort of creature is a whydah?
Which country had a police force called the Tonton Macoutes?
What would you find in a formicary?
Which Greek millionairess died in 1989 in Argentina?
What was the profession of the Frenchman Auguste Escoffier?
In basketball, the Rockets are a major league team of which US city?
Who was the first British sovereign to make regular use of Buckingham Palace when in residence in London?
Of which country is Sofia the capital?
What is meant by the musical term 'andante'?
Which saint's day falls on 17 March?
In a bullfight, what is a mounted man with a lance called?
Which legendary chief of the Onondaga tribe of native Americans was the subject of a famous poem by Longfellow?
Which famous sportsman was presented with a gold medal during the 1996 Olympics, to replace the one he threw away in the 1960s?
What sort of films are sometimes referred to 'horse operas'?
Which word for the act of killing someone painlessly, especially to relieve suffering, is derived from the Greek for 'easy death'?
Carmine is a vivid shade of which colour?
Name the island where Gulliver discovered a race of little people in the novel Gulliver's Travels.
In May 1999, who succeeded Benjamin Netanyahu as Israel's prime minister?
Under Genoese control from the 14th century, which Mediterranean island was sold to France in 1768?
The face of which British soldier and politician appeared on one of the most famous of all recruiting posters with the slogan "Your country needs you"?
On what date do the French celebrate Bastille Day?
In which ocean does the country of Vanuatu lie?
What nationality is Formula 1 driver Marc Gené?
In which year were the World Indoor Athletics Championships first held?
Which character was played by Colin Firth in the 2001 film Bridget Jones's Diary?
Which protégée of Missy Elliott recorded the 2001 album Based on a True Story?
What is the longest river in France?
Who directed the films Scary Movie and Scary Movie 2?
In which city was the International Governing Body of Fencing (the FIE) founded in 1913?
What would be mounted on a pan and tilt head?
Which 1940 Disney film featured music by Bach, Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, Stravinsky and others?
Which patron saint of the British Isles does not have his cross on the union flag?
Which French novelist wrote Madame Bovary?
How many players are there in a lacrosse team?
Which instrument derives its name from the fact that it can be played soft or loud according to the pressure on the keys?
What is the third colour of the rainbow?
On the Fahrenheit scale, what temperature is boiling point?
The tapir is an animal native to which continent?
Which country would you first reach if you travel south-west from Sicily?
Who wrote Ode to a Grecian Urn?
Which singer/songwriter won an Oscar for his score for the 1971 film Shaft?
Which controversial British artist is best known for works such as Mother and Child Divided?
Which is the highest navigable lake in the world?
Albuquerque is the largest city of which US state?
Of which country is New Britain a part?
Which Latin legal term means 'you should have the body'?
Which sport involves 'the snatch', 'the clean' and 'the jerk'?
What name is given to radioactive material which settles on the Earth's surface following a nuclear explosion?
Who wrote the horror novel Dracula?
Supposedly started by Mrs O'Leary's cow kicking over an oil lamp, fire almost completely destroyed which US city in 1871?
Which city is the home of the Italian soccer team Sampdoria?
In J M Barrie's Peter Pan, what is the surname of Wendy, Michael and John?
According to Peter Pan, what happens every time a child says: "I don't believe in fairies"?
What nationality was the composer Franz Schubert?
Snake-necked and hawk's bill are what kinds of creatures?
Which city on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea was originally a Greek colony called Massilia?
What is the name of the flat circular disk of vulcanised rubber used in the game of ice hockey?
In Japan, what are Hokkaido, Shikoko and Kyushu?
What sort of creature is an eland?
During the Spanish Civil War, the bombing of which Basque town by German planes inspired a famous painting by Picasso?
On which continent is the volcano Mount Erebus?
Which Roman soldier and martyr was supposedly sentenced to be executed by archers?
Which small prosimian primate of Madagascar has a ring-tailed variety?
In which US state is the city of Pittsburgh?
Which Roman Catholic order founded by St Angela Merici in 1535 was the first women's teaching order?
What name is given to a device in which a moving fluid drives a wheel or motor?
Which Old Testament character was banished to the Land of Nod on the east of Eden?
In which Hollywood blockbuster did Bruce Willis play an oil-driller attempting to save the world from being destroyed by an asteroid?
Which Warwickshire market town was the birthplace of William Shakespeare?
Who was the Roman god of war?
What name is given to the ninth month of the Muslim year?
Which tuned percussion instrument takes its name from the German for 'bell play'?
What sort of antibiotic was first isolated by Sir Alexander Fleming?
Which French city is a meeting place for the European Parliament?
What name is given to animals such as kangaroos, wallabies and opossums?
Which part of the body consists of the duodenum, the jejunum and the ileum?
What percentage of agricultural produce was payable as a tithe?
By what name was Venetian painter Jacopo Robusti known?
Which large, picturesque Canadian city lies to the west of the Rocky Mountains?
What was the surname of the French brothers who invented the hot-air balloon?
Who wrote the play The Two Gentlemen of Verona?
Which famous cycle race was first staged in 1903?
Titan is a satellite of which planet?
Which is the largest city in Brazil?
Which Japanese city hosted the 1972 Winter Olympics?
Who was the guitarist in The Who who wrote the rock opera Tommy?
How many dancers feature in a pas de deux?
Is Provence in the north or south of France?
What name is given to the playing periods in a game of polo?
What type of creature was Baloo in The Jungle Book?
What breed of dog was Nana, the dog featured in Peter Pan?
Which beef dish is named after a Russian count?
After her career seemed to be in ruins, which tennis player marked her comeback by winning her first Grand Slam tournament, the 2001 Australian Open Championship?
Which vehicle was invented by English engineer Sir Christopher Cockerell?
In which valley in central Yukon was gold discovered in 1896, leading to a famous gold-rush?
What is the capital of Malaysia?
For what is the word 'lea' a poetic term?
Who plays comic-book expert Elijah Price in the 2000 film Unbreakable?
Which flamboyant singer reached the UK No 1 spot posthumously in 1993 with Living on My Own?
In which sport was the father of Grace Kelly an Olympic gold medallist?
Who was the first US racing driver to win the Formula 1 World Championship?
Which British administrator originated the penny postage system?
In which film did Humphrey Bogart play the character of Charlie Allnut?
By what name is Mendelssohn's Fourth Symphony known?
Of which former Soviet state is Bishkek the capital?
By what name is the 16th century astrologer Michelle de Notredame known?
For which powerful opiate is 'diamorphine' the technical term?
What name is given to the roof of the mouth divided into soft and hard parts?
In which country did the Boxer Rebellion take place?
The Irish bodhran is why type of musical instrument?
In which Spanish dance does a man represent the matador and a woman represent the cloak?
In the film The Bodyguard, who plays the singer who requires protection?
Who wrote the music for the ballet Billy the Kid?
Which actor was the first male to appear as a centrefold in Cosmopolitan magazine?
Who painted The Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist and Saint Nicholas of Bari?
Which British novelist wrote Silas Marner?
What name is given to the symbol placed at the beginning of a musical stave, to indicate the pitch?
Who played Darryl van Horne in the film The Witches of Eastwick?
Which part of the body contains five metatarsal bones?
In which year did the French Revolution begin?
Which strait separates the Isle of Wight from Hampshire?
Which clipper (built in 1869) is preserved as a museum at Greenwich, London?
British painter George Stubbs was famous for his studies of which animals?
What substance obtained from the sapodilla tree is used to make chewing gum?
In which two European cities are Cleopatra's Needles?
Who was the famous monster of Greek legend, part woman, part beast, who dwelt near Thebes?
In which country was the author Jonathan Swift born?
What is the name of the milky fluid obtained from trees which is used to produce rubber?
The molecule of what substance contains two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom?
Of what is entymology the study?
Of which country is Amman the capital?
The republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania all border the shores of which sea?
How many innings are there for each team in a game of baseball?
Which is the only mammal with the power of active flight?
In which English county is Lizard Point?
Which city will play host to the 2010 Winter Olympics?
Who preceded Arnold Schwarzenegger as governor of California?
In 2003, who became leader of the British Conservative Party?
In 2003, George W Bush became the second US president to visit Auschwitz: who was the first?
In 2003, Montreal International Airport was renamed in honour of which Canadian statesman?
Which Canadian wrote the critically and commercially acclaimed novel Fifth Business?
Complete the saying: "To err is human…"
In Cockney rhyming slang, what is a 'porky'?
On a tombstone, what do the initials HIS stand for?
What is the English translation of the German 'heimweh'?
Which alcoholic drink is distilled from grain flavoured with juniper berries?
Who played Billie Holiday in the film Lady Sings the Blues?
What was the name of Napoleon Bonaparte's first wife?
What name is given to the offspring produced by the mating of two unrelated animals or plants?
Which big cat is also known as the panther?
What name is given to a sharp or burning pain originating in a nerve?
In medicine, what does the acronym SARS stand for?
Who wrote Where Eagles Dare?
What was the name of the car ferry which overturned in the 1987 Zeebrugge disaster?
By what name did Richard Reid, who tried to hijack an American Airlines flight from Paris to Miami, become known?
How many nautical miles is a league?
Thimpu is the capital of which country?
Edward Jenner discovered a vaccine for which disease?
What nationality was the composer Sibelius?
Who played Norm Paterson in Cheers?
What type of bird is a broad-breasted bronze?
Which English queen is reputed to have had an extra finger on one of her hands?
In which part of the human body is the masseter muscle?
Which great historic general and adventurer rode a horse called Bucephalus?
What is the name of the very spicy Italian sausage eaten hot or cold?
Who was appointed Youth Leader of the Reich in June 1933?
Marcus Junius Brutus (an assassin of Julius Caesar) was the nephew of which Roman philosopher?
Which former Israeli prime minister was born at Brestlitovsk in 1913?
Who was the author of The Canterbury Tales?
What is the name given to the liquorice-flavoured seeds of the anise plant?
Which sport is played by the Toronto Blue Jays and Boston Red Sox?
The 1989 Ken Russell film The Lair of the White Worm was based on a tale by which writer?
Who was Roman emperor from 54-68 AD?
Which famous English landscape artist's works include The Vale of Dedham?
In which year was Anne Boleyn executed?
Which body of water in Scotland does the Kincardine Bridge span?
Who recorded the 2001 album Hot Shot?
In which African country is the resort of Sharm El Sheikh?
Which star of the X Files TV series played Lily Bart in the film The House of Mirth?
Which modern US fighter aircraft is also called The Fighting Falcon?
What name is given to the fruits of plants of the genus Ficus?
What is the state capital of Utah?
In which year was the Channel Tunnel officially opened?
Name the walled city in Canada that has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Which United States film actress (born in Canada) who starred in silent films, was born Gladys Smith?
From the Jordanian port of Aqaba, three other countries can be seen: can you name them?
Who plays the part of ruthless casino owner Willy Bank in the 2007 film Ocean's Thirteen?
On a standard typewriter keyboard, which letter lies between the 'Q' and the 'E'?
In which part of the body would you find the organ of Corti?
Which is closest to the Sun: Jupiter or Pluto?
What is the capital of Canada?
Which German-born physicist was famous for his theories of relativity?
Which Swiss city is the location of the headquarters of the International Red Cross and the World Health Organisation?
Of which country did Jean-Bédel Bokassa proclaim himself emperor in 1977?
How many players are there in a Gaelic football team?
What name is given to the Japanese art of flower arranging?
A daguerreotype is an early form of what?
Which product did soap salesman William Wrigley Jr begin distributing in 1892?
Who is the patron saint of music?
In which European country is the summer and ski resort of Zell am See?
Who wrote Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm?
What was the first name of the composer Mussorgsky?
The Kara Sea is an arm of which ocean?
Who wrote the 1978 novel The Sea, the Sea?
Which imaginary creature is depicted as white horse with one spiralled horn growing from its forehead?
At which sport is Australian Kieran Perkins a former world champion?
In which sport is the James Norris Memorial Trophy awarded?
In which city is the US football team The Carolina Panthers based?
Which famous UK fashion designer married Andreas Kronthaler in 1992?
In 1996, which female singer famously attacked a reporter at Bangkok airport?
How old was reggae legend Bob Marley when he died: 36 or 42?
What was the name of Mel Gibson's character in the Lethal Weapon films?
What was the nationality of the character played by Ralph Fiennes in The English Patient?
Which husband and wife shared the 1903 Nobel Prize for Physics with Henri Becquerel?
Which British author wrote The Thirty-Nine Steps?
In Jewish cookery, what is a kneidel?
Which London street between The Strand and Ludgate Circus became synonymous with the British newspaper industry?
What is the capital of Belgium?
Which English-born actress was twice married to Richard Burton?
In which country was media tycoon Rupert Murdoch born?
Which Austrian composer wrote the oratorios The Creation and The Seasons?
Which African lake was discovered by Sir Richard Burton and John Speke in 1858?
Who narrates Woody Allen's film Radio Days?
What was the name of Bob Marley's backing group?
The song Nobody Does it Better featured in which James Bond film?
In the Popeye cartoon series, who is Popeye's hamburger-loving friend, who has an IQ of 326?
How many dominoes are there in a standard set?
By what name is the large American bird Meleagris Gallopavo more commonly known?
What is the first name of Agatha Christie's creation Miss Marple?
Boadicea was queen of which tribe of people?
The ancient city of Carthage is in which modern country?
Who is the patron saint of fishermen?
In the book Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson, what is the name of the ship?
What nationality was the sprinter Ray Stewart?
Fat of the Land, which went straight to No 1 in the US album charts in 1997, was by which band?
Which Frenchman made the first flight across the English Channel in 1909?
Who was the goddess of youth and spring in Greek mythology?
Which city in central India was the site of a poisonous gas leak in 1984?
…and which company was responsible for this disaster?
Which Norwegian painter's works include The Scream?
What nationality is the tenor Giuseppe Di Stefano?
What nationality was Olympic shooting champion Gudbrand Skatteboe?
If something is 'clavate' what shape is it?
Which Brazilian racing driver was killed at Imola in 1994?
What is the capital of Argentina?
Which novelist wrote The Young Caesar and The Aerodrome?
Who was the first female swimmer to win gold medals in three successive Olympics?
Which of the gifts brought by the Magi is also known as olibanum?
Which well-known nursery rhyme was written by US poet Sarah Josepha Hale in 1830?
In which New Mexico city was the atomic bomb developed in the Manhattan Project?
What is the German name for the Polish port of Gdansk?
What is the name given to the leader of congregational prayer in a mosque?
Who was Secretary-General of the Commonwealth from 1975-1989?
Who was the first murder victim in the Bible?
What was the name of the Lone Ranger's Indian companion?
The Lone Ranger TV theme music comes from which Rossini opera?
Which Australian city is named after the queen consort of King William IV of England?
What was the profession of the character played by Jack Nicholson in Terms of Endearment?
By what name was the only English pope, Nicholas Brakespear known?
Who was the sixth president of the USA?
Margaret Dumont was the long-suffering stooge to which comedy team?
Which sea lies between the Italian mainland and the islands of Sicily, Sardinia and Corsica?
What nationality is the actress Liv Ullmann?
Which prominent newspaper tycoon renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2001 in order to be appointed to Britain's House of Lords?
How many yards are there in one furlong?
What was the pen-name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson?
In which country are the Plains of Abraham?
Which weather phenomenon takes its name from the Spanish for 'the child'?
Who wrote the children's story James and the Giant Peach?
Which country is known as Suomi in its native language?
In which year did the reggae artist Bob Marley die?
Which Hollywood heart-throb was the guitarist of the rock group P?
Which 1970 Ken Loach film starred David Bradley as a boy who becomes obsessed with a bird of prey?
Who was elected vice president of the USA in 1852, but died six weeks after being sworn in?
Who became president of Egypt in 1981?
The War of the Bavarian Succession was fought between which two countries?
In martial arts, what is an ashi gatami?
What is the name of Woody's horse in the film Toy Story 2?
In which field event would you associate Philippa Roles and Judy Oakes?
In which sport were Ichiro Ogimura and Yoshio Tomita world champions in 1956?
What nationality was skier Christl Cranz?
In which Australian city is the Albert Park Formula 1 motor racing circuit?
What is dactylography?
Which letter of the Greek alphabet is the equivalent of the letter 'K'?
What is the meaning of the common abbreviation CD-ROM?
Which period of geological time saw the appearance of humans?
Which Texas town was established in 1849 to protect settlers from attacks by the Comanche tribe?
MB is the abbreviation of which Canadian province?
What is the average gestation period of a lion: 15 weeks or 26 weeks?
Who penned the poem The Village Blacksmith?
In which European capital city is the grave of the Doors singer Jim Morrison?
Which Four Weddings and a Funeral star played Clive Durham in the 1987 film Maurice?
What is the correct form of spoken address to a pope?
Which is the world's largest dry desert?
Which Christian festival is celebrated on 6 January?
Which extinct big cat was named after its long, curved upper canine teeth?
In World War II, what name was given to a Japanese aircraft crashed deliberately onto its target by its pilot?
Which French novelist gave his name to pleasure derived from causing or observing pain?
What sort of creature is a flying fox?
Who composed the music for Hark the Herald Angels Sing?
Which US senator was famous for leading an anti-communist witch-hunt in the early 1950s?
In which London theatre did Lilian Baylis establish and opera and ballet company in the 1930s?
Which composer wrote Orpheus in the Underworld and The Tales of Hoffmann?
What is the title of the Clement Moore poem which begins "'Twas the night before Christmas…"?
Which actor appeared in Apocalypse Now and Superman?
Who is generally regarded as the first British prime minister?
What number wood in golf was formerly known as a 'spoon'?
What name is given to the deliberate and systematic destruction of a racial, religious or ethnic group?
Which US actor starred in Twelve Angry Men and On Golden Pond?
Who composed the symphony No 6 commonly known as The Pastoral?
Which three sports are included in the triathlon?
Which branch of mathematics takes its name from the Greek for 'earth measurement'?
Which horse won the British Grand National in 1973, 1974 and 1977?
Which Scottish poet is remembered on 25 January?
By what first name is saxophonist Theodore Walter Rollins better known?
Who won an Oscar in 1993 for his role in Philadelphia?
Which country won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1992, 1993 and 1994?
In the Old Testament, who cut off Samson's hair?
What is the female counterpart of the male spirit Incubus?
Which plants have an organ called a holdfast?
On which lake is the city of Milwaukee?
How many cohorts were there in a Roman legion?
Which Israeli politician was given the nickname BiBi?
Who wrote the 2000 novel Fin?
What is an entresol?
For which form of therapy is the scientist Niels Ryberg Finsen best remembered?
Which country music artist recorded the 2000 album Milk Cow Blues?
In which country is the Badalona cave system?
Which German city is further south: Bonn or Cologne?
Which poet was born Ricardo Neftali Reyes Basoalto in 1904?
What is balbriggan: a gypsy or a type of fabric?
In which discipline did Robert S Mulliken win a Nobel prize in 1966?
Which British general died leading his men in the capture of Quebec in 1759?
Which publication, originally reprinting condensations of articles from other magazines, first appeared in the US in 1922?
Which ancient Roman wrote The Sixteen Satires?
Who was the US Commander in Chief of UN Forces in the Korean War, who was relieved of his command in April 1951?
Which legendary English outlaw was an adversary of the Sheriff of Nottingham?
What is the chief port of The Netherlands?
Which US president was the subject of a 1987 opera by John Adams?
With which artistic movement were Salvador Dali and Rene Magritte associated?
What name is given to the treeless region in the northern hemisphere, of which permafrost is a feature?
Which Russian composer wrote Sheherezade?
Which British novelist penned Mansfield Park and Northanger Abbey?
In which London church is Poets' Corner?
What was the debut single of the Pet Shop Boys, which hit the UK No 1 spot in 1985?
Which legendary actor and dancer's first screen appearance came in 1933's Dancing Lady, in which he played himself?
Which 1973 film featured Jack Nicholson as a sailor escorting a thief to naval prison?
Which African country was formerly known as Dahomey?
In which Sheridan play does the character Mrs Malaprop appear?
Which German driver achieved his first Formula 1 victory in the 2001 San Marino Grand Prix?
Which is the largest of the United Arab Emirates?
Dagestan is an autonomous republic of which country?
Which chieftain united the Gauls against Julius Caesar in 52BC?
What is the name of the gang of which William is a member in the stories by Richmal Crompton?
Who played eight members of the same family in the film Kind Hearts and Coronets?
What was the first name of actor Lon Chaney?
Which character in Greek mythology sacrificed his daughter Iphigenia?
Which creatures are studied by an ornithologist?
What name is given to goods thrown overboard to lighten a ship in distress?
In which European country is the city of Verona?
Which Oscar-winning film starred Chow Yn Fat and Zhang Zi Yi?
Which African lake is the second deepest lake in the world?
Which group's albums included the live recording Bless Its Pointed Little Head?
To what did the group The Detours change their name in 1964?
Which British album went straight to No 1 in the US charts in 2000?
In the hexadecimal system, what letter represents the number 15?
The largest of the seas of the Moon is the Mare Imbrium: what does this translate to?
Lake Iliamna is the largest lake in which US state?
In which sport did Inna Ryskal of the USSR win four Olympic medals from 1964 to 1976?
Makes Me Wonder was a Top Five hit for which group in 2007?
Whose album Favourite Worst Nightmare was a hit in 2007?
What is the real name of the comedienne Ruby Wax?
Which alpine rail tunnel (then the longest rail tunnel in the world) was opened in 1906?
Which Biblical character was thrown into a lion's den?
The periodic table is a list of chemical elements: what is No 1 in that list?
Orville was one of the pioneering Wright brothers: what was the name of the other?
Which month of the year takes its name from the Roman festival of purification?
In tennis, what score comes after deuce?
Derived from the Latin for 'licking' what word describes a syrupy medicinal preparation taken to relieve coughs and sore throats?
Who was elected France's new president in May 2007?
…and whom did he succeed?
In architecture, fenestration is the arrangement of what in a building?
What is the middle name of basketball legend Michael Jordan?
Which flamboyant Russian-born ballet dancer died in Paris in 1993?
Who were the mother and father of Galahad in Arthurian legend?
What kind of creature is an australorp?
What is the real name of writer Barbara Vine, also known as Ruth Rendell?
What is the former name of JFK airport, New York?
Which 1996 film featured Bill Paxton as the US president?
St Cloud is a suburb of which French city?
Which country claimed Queen Maud Land, Antarctica in 1939?
Which country has the southernmost point in South America?
Who played Professor X in the 2000 film The X-Men?
Who won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar in 2000 for her role in Girl, Interrupted?
In which Australian city were the group The Hoodoo Gurus formed?
Gustav von Aschenbach is the central character in which novella?
The Maritime Alps run along the border between which two countries?
Which is the most southerly province of Portugal?
Which scientist won the Nobel Prize for his discovery of photoelectric effect?
Of what is petrology the study?
Which African animal's name means 'river horse'?
Who was the consort of Queen Victoria?
Which bridge was re-erected as a tourist attraction at Lake Havasu City in Arizona?
Who won a Best Actor Oscar for his performance in Gladiator?
What name is given to the period during which a person or animal that is suspected of carrying an infected disease is kept in isolation?
Of which US state is Carson City the capital?
Which debonair British actor wrote The Moon's a Balloon and Bring on the Empty Horses?
What name is given to the oriental art of paper-folding?
In which men's team golf competition do professionals from Europe and the USA compete every two years?
What is the largest French-speaking city in Canada?
Which diminutive French painter led an unconventional life among the music halls and cafés of Montmartre?
On which Greek island did the poetess Sappho live?
Which notoriously cruel Roman emperor is said to have been responsible for the deaths of two wives and his mother?
By what name was Russian-born entertainer Asa Yoelson, star of The Jazz Singer better known?
Which wooden religious offering allowed the Greeks to get inside the walls of Troy?
By what initials is the high explosive trinitrotoluene better known?
Which Olympic event takes place over a course 26 miles and 385 yards in length?
Which Scottish loch is famously associated with sightings of a monster?
Which corrosion-resistant alloy of iron, chromium and nickel is widely used for making cutlery and kitchen utensils?
To which class of nymphs did Amphitrite (wife of Poseidon) and Thetis (mother of Achilles) belong in Greek mythology?
What name is given to the fruit of the Chinese tree prunus persica?
By what name is the ozonosphere commonly known?
Sherwood Stewart and Ferdi Taygan won the 1982 French Open Men's Doubles Tennis Championship: which country were they from?
If a substance is 'caseous', what is it like?
What might you do with a cervelat?
What in Australia is known as a 'jumbuck'?
Which rock group released the 2001 single All I Want?
What in North American slang is a 'potsy' to a police officer?
In the Bible, who was the wife of Uriah?
What is the colour of the central stripe on the flag of Chad?
Which modern British city was known by the Romans as Magnus Portus?
Which country is home to the international governing body of gymnastics, the FIG?
What does the 'fc' stand for in the designer fashion label 'fcuk'?
The coronation of which king of England took place in Gloucester Cathedral in 1216?
The name of which North African city literally means 'white house'?
What does the 'W' in George W Bush stand for?
Which deceased former emperor of Ethiopia is regarded by members of the Rastafarian religion as the Messiah?
Shades of which colour can be described as cobalt and Prussian?
Ming the Merciless was the arch-enemy of which sci-fi hero?
In which English county is the famous Stonehenge stone circle?
What activity links the following films: Blood and Sand, The Kid from Spain and The Sun Also Rises?
What is the meaning of the prefix 'kara' in Japanese words such as 'karate' and 'karaoke'?
Who does Jim Carrey play in the 1994 film The Mask?
During which war was the 1970 film Darling Lili set?
In which novel does Rawdon Crawley marry Becky Sharp?
What is the colour of the ball worth one point in the game of snooker?
Which character in the film Star Wars was played by Mark Hammill?
What is the derived SI unit of electrical capacitance?
What does the legal term 'caveat emptor' mean?
Which singer and actress starred in the films The Wizard of Oz and Meet Me in St Louis?
What was basketball player Magic Johnson's real first name?
By what name were the Nazi police force Geheime Staatspolizei known?
What is the name given to clusters of flowers borne by trees such as the hazel?
In chess, which piece can move diagonally in a straight line, but keeping to the colour of the square on which it starts?
Who was the Commander in Chief of the Greeks in the Trojan War, who was murdered by his wife Clytemnestra?
Which lower level of clouds are commonly called rainclouds?
What is the longest river in India?
At 1200 hours GMT, what time is it in Lisbon?
In which country is the promontory known as The Giant's Causeway?
The rivers Ruhr, Main, Moselle and Neckar are tributaries of which river?
Which country in Europe is nowhere higher than 570 feet above sea level?
Which prolific Canadian songstress wrote Big Yellow Taxi?
Which Jane Austen novel begins: "It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife"?
What was the occupation of the character played by Jack Lemmon in the film How to Murder Your Wife?
In which country is the city of Faisalabad?
Which famous nanny was created by P L Travers?
What name is given to the winter dormancy of certain mammals?
What was the first name of the Scottish pirate Captain Kidd?
Which British tenor sang in the first performances of all Benjamin Britten's operas?
Do male or female sea horses carry the eggs until they hatch?
What is the surname of Emma in the novel by Jane Austen?
Which famous artist was the subject of the song by Don McLean which begins "Starry, starry night"?
Which female singer recorded the 1999 album Telegram?
What does MS-DOS stand for in computing?
Of which planet is Desdemona a satellite?
Which element did Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner discover in 1918?
What colour is pitchblende?
Which actor voiced the Genie in the 1992 animated film Aladdin?
Actress Kate Hudson is the daughter of which other actress?
Who did the singer Jennifer Lopez marry in 2001?
Who starred as the psychiatrist in the 1992 film Final Analysis?
Which gas forms a larger percentage of the air by volume: ozone or neon?
Which Bavarian town was the site of the first concentration camp set up by the Nazis?
Which US singer/songwriter wrote Blowin' in the Wind?
Which US author wrote The Fall of the House of Usher?
Which actor starred as a theatrical entrepreneur and serial-killer in the 1968 film No Way to Treat a Lady?
Which UK garage artist released the debut album Born to Do It?
Which form of recreation originated on paved areas along California beaches in the 1960s?
What is the name of the Barber of Seville in the play by Beaumarchais?
Which music-hall comedienne and singer was born Grace Stansfield?
What was the tallest building in the world before the completion of the Chrysler Building in New York in 1930?
Which French composer wrote The Sorcerer's Apprentice?
Is the meerkat diurnal or nocturnal?
The Sierra Madre chain is the main mountain system of which country?
As what was the Russian Anna Pavlova best known?
In which century was Sir Isaac Newton born?
Where are the Islets of Langerhans?
Which sea strait links the Mediterranean Sea with the Atlantic Ocean?
In which US city was John F Kennedy assassinated in 1963?
The French port of Saint Nazaire stands at the mouth of which river?
At which sport have Eirik Kvalfoss and Frank Ullrich been world champions?
In which city was country music star Kenny Rogers born?
Who was the first actress to receive two Oscars before the age of 30?
Which Belgian city was the site of the first battle between British and German forces in World War I?
Which large triangular muscle covering the shoulder serves to raise the arm laterally?
What was the pen-name of Samuel Langhorne Clemens?
Which hoisting device used on ships is named after a 17th century English hangman?
Who was the fifth wife of King Henry VIII of England?
Which actress starred opposite Harrison Ford in the film thriller What Lies Beneath?
Which actor's childhood nickname was Tootsie?
Which boy band became the first act to have seven UK No 1 singles in a row?
What name is given to 15 July, which is supposed to set the weather for 40 days thereafter?
What is Elvis Presley's profession in the 1967 film Easy Come, Easy Go?
With which winter sport is the Worldloppet Cup associated?
In which country was cricketer Mike Procter born?
Physicist Niels Bohr was born and died in which European capital city?
Abuja is the capital of which West African republic?
Which country did athlete Juliet Cuthbert represent?
What was the registration number of Lady Penelope's pink Rolls Royce in the TV show Thunderbirds?
Des Moines is the capital of which US state?
Which pop singer originally had a No 1 single with the song When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Going?
Which river flows into the North Sea at Sunderland?
Aldebaran is the brightest star in which constellation?
"Fidelity, bravery, integrity" is the motto of which US organisation?
What was the name of the cloned sheep which attracted much media attention in 1997?
What is the more common name for the medical condition nyctalopia?
Which US Civil War general led his famous march to the sea?
Which country always leads the Olympic procession at the opening ceremony?
At which US nuclear plant did a nuclear accident occur in 1979?
How was the second emperor of Rome, Claudius Nero Caesar, better known?
The wine marsala comes from which region of Italy?
The statue Christ of the Andes stands on the border between Argentina and which other country?
What nationality is the cyclist Eddy Merckx?
With which instrument was Yehudi Menuhin associated?
Which US city is nicknamed Bean Town?
In which European country is the ski resort of Serre-Chevalier?
What was Michael Caine's character's name in the 1967 film Billion Dollar Brain?
Which actor's son plays the kidnapped child in the 1996 film Ransom?
At which sport were Irina Karavaeva and Alexander Rusakov world champions in 2005?
In which sport was Denny Hume active during the 1970s?
Who set a world record of 26:38.08 for the 10,000 metres on 23 August 1996?
Who wrote the 2001 self-help-cum-autobiographical book Take It From Me: Life's a Struggle But You Can Win?
Who wrote the musical Annie Get Your Gun?
In London, which concert hall is the traditional home of the Promenade Concerts?
Which surrealist artist once described his paintings as "hand-painted dream photographs"?
What kind of foodstuff is Monterey Jack?
What type of books were written by American novelist Zane Gray?
What name is given to the region of low pressure, calm latitudes in the oceans near to the equator?
Which creature is known as orange man, or wise man of the forest?
What archaic unit of measurement was equal to 18 inches?
In which year did Hong Kong revert to Chinese sovereignty?
In which vessel did Sir Francis Drake sail the world?
Which hard white substance forms the tusks of elephants and walruses?
What name is given to a line on a map joining places of equal temperature?
How many horns has an Indian rhinoceros?
Which stage of human history came after the Bronze Age?
Which French novelist wrote the book translated as Remembrance of Things Past?
What is the anatomical name for the lower jawbone?
In which US state is Las Vegas?
What sort of creature is a 'mugger'?
Which Scottish mathematician invented logarithms?
What do the initials NATO stand for?
Which Old Testament brother of Moses was first High Priest of the Israelites?
Which canal in Venice is crossed by the Rialto Bridge?
Who wrote the 1982 novel Light Thickens?
Who played Latka Gravas in the sitcom Taxi?
Which actress provides the love interest in the 1955 film The Tall Men?
Which flower of Greek legend was said to cover the Elysian Fields?
For which 1994 film did Jessica Lange win a Best Actress Oscar?
Who directed the 1991 film Thelma & Louise?
What is the name given to the study of the composition and formation of rocks?
Which 1990 film starring Jack Nicholson was a belated follow-up to Chinatown?
From which country does the band Sigur Ros come?
What was the name of the character played by Antonio Fargas in the TV cop show Starsky and Hutch?
Which common servant is the lover of Columbine in the Comedia dell'Arte?
In the Old Testament, who was the second son of Adam and Eve?
On which river is the Texas city of Laredo?
Which country administers the Aleutian Islands?
In which US state is the Yosemite National Park?
In which South American country is the seaport of Florianopolis?
Guernsey, Jersey and Sark are part of which island group?
What meat-derived foodstuff did Kenneth Daigneau famously give a name to in 1937?
What is the standard monetary unit of Botswana?
Who wrote the 1973 play Equus?
Which ancient Greek city was the site of the most famous oracle of Apollo?
Who wrote the one act play Salomé, produced in Paris in 1896?
Which creature of Australia and New Guinea is also called a spiny anteater?
Which studio album by Queen first featured the song We Will Rock You?
In which year was Pompeii destroyed by Vesuvius?
Who succeeded James A Garfield as US president in 1881?
Of which republic in the Caribbean is Port au Prince the capital?
Lake Taupo is the largest lake in which country?
Which critically acclaimed Canadian author wrote The Stone Diaries?
Who was the youngest man to have won all four of golf's major championships?
Which Roman historian wrote a history of Rome in 142 volumes?
What name is given to members of the United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing?
Which former defence secretary did George W Bush choose as his running mate?
In computing, what does GUI stand for?
Which is the second largest mountain system in North America?
What was the popular name for the gallows which stood close to the present-day site of Marble Arch in London?
Which former star of ER appeared in the film The Perfect Storm?
In Longfellow's famous poem, who does Hiawatha marry?
What was the name of the former racial segregation policy in South Africa?
Which is the only chess piece that cannot be taken?
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania stands on which river?
In electronics, what does PCB stand for?
In which country are the Apennine Mountains?
Which Arizona town is famous as the scene of the Gunfight at the OK Corral?
What name was given to the Nottinghamshire textile workers who destroyed labour-saving machinery in the Industrial Revolution?
Which actress is the second wife of film director Blake Edwards?
What name is given to a visible cloud of dust and gas in space?
Which medical condition was formerly known as King's Evil?
Which Chilean island, famous for its giant stone sculptures, is also called Rapa Nui?
Which actress is the elder sister of Warren Beatty?
What was Thomas Twyford's gift to civilization with his invention of 1885?
Which US inventor developed the first safety lift?
What is the minimum number of tennis strokes a player needs to make to win a set?
Which English poet wrote Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained?
Which rare Indonesian monitor lizard is the largest living lizard?
What was the name of the raft used by Thor Heyerdahl on his 1947 expedition?
In 1947, which country was created as a separate state for the Muslim minority in India?
Diplodocus and triceratops are examples of what kind of creature?
Of which Shakespeare play is Imogen the heroine?
To which king is the Book of Proverbs in the Old Testament traditionally ascribed?
Which 2000 British film was about an 11-year-old boy who takes up ballet?
Which sign of the zodiac governs the period from 23 July to 22 August?
A luge is a type of what?
Which former Olympic swimming champion played Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers in films?
Which four-times World Superbike Champion announced his retirement in 2000?
In which European country did the dish goulash originate?
Which book by Gavin Maxwell describes his life with two pet otters in the Scottish Highlands?
What name is given to the dried excrement of fish-eating birds, used as a fertilizer?
Which eye disease is marked by increased pressure within the eye?
What was the name of the London restaurant launched by models Claudia Schiffer, Naomi Campbell and Elle MacPherson?
Which coastal village in Cornwall has the ruins of a castle reputed to be that of the court of King Arthur?
Which Irish-American dancer and choreographer came to fame in River Dance and Lord of the Dance?
What was the name of the royal dynasty of France from 1328 to 1589?
Lake Titicaca lies in which two South American countries?
Which Scottish band recorded the album The Man Who?
Which Jewish initiation ceremony takes its name from the Hebrew for 'son of the Commandment'?
Which tree's leaves provide the staple diet of koala bears?
Which sugar is also known as dextrose or grape sugar?
Which system of healing is based on the belief that disease results from a lack of normal nerve function?
Which dancer and choreographer died in 2001 at the age of 102?
Which is the only seal that feeds on penguins?
Who provided the voice of the dragon in the Disney film Mulan?
The Fédération Colombophile Internationale is the world governing body of which sport?
Which international environmental pressure group was founded in British Columbia in 1971?
What name is given to tissue damage caused by exposure to extreme cold?
Which 2001 film set in Mexico starred Penelope Cruz and Matt Damon?
Who sailed around the world in the yacht Gipsy Moth IV?
Which collection of fairy tales include Hansel and Gretel and Rumpelstiltskin?
In which year did Hillary and Tenzing become the first mountaineers to reach the summit of Mount Everest?
Which is the highest mountain in North America?
What is the English name for the movement in French cinema called 'nouvelle vague'?
What is the medical name for short-sightedness?
Which female aviator established records with solo flights to Australia, Tokyo and the Cape of Good Hope in the 1930s?
Which country is surrounded by Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia?
What is the name of the character who personifies the US government and people?
Which acute viral infection passed on by animal bites is also called hydrophobia?
Which fortified palace on a rocky hill in Granada is an outstanding example of Moorish architecture?
What name is given to the tendency to ascribe human characteristics to non-human creatures?
Which alcoholic drink's name is derived from a Gaelic word meaning 'the water of life'?
What name is given to the magical beliefs and practices associated particularly with Haiti?
Which island group is called the Malvinas by Argentina?
What name is given to a dilute solution of acetic acid used to flavour food and as a preservative?
Who was the Roman god of fire?
Which Argentinian racing driver won the World Drivers' Championship a record five times in the 1950s?
From which country did Iceland win total independence in June 1944?
Which English poet lived with his sister at Dove Cottage, Grasmere in the English Lake District?
A covey is the group name for what type of bird?
Which alkaline fluid is produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder?
Which French dramatist wrote Tartuffe and Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme?
The name of which major religion translates as 'submission'?
Which important religious building contains the Kaaba?
Which opera was composed by Verdi for the opening of the Suez Canal?
Who was Lord Protector of England from 1653 to 1658?
What was the name of King Arthur's magic sword?
Which Russian author wrote the novel A Month in the Country?
Which singer and songwriter recorded the 1965 album Highway 61 Revisited?
Who was the last king of Rome?
What type of creature is a gecko?
By what name was William Joyce known in World War II?
In internet terminology, what does LAN stand for?
Who was the first president of the French Fifth Republic?
The Ligurian Sea is an arm of which body of water?
What is the name of the dish, originating from North Africa, that consists of steamed semolina?
If you ordered calamares in a restaurant, what would you be eating?
Named after a town in north-east India, which high quality tea with a delicate taste is known as the 'Champagne of teas'?
In which 1981 film do Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep say farewell?
Which South African surgeon performed the world's first successful heart transplant?
What 'R' is the active form of vitamin A found in margarines, oily fish and dairy fats?
Orly airport serves which city?
In Greek mythology, who was the giant watchman with one hundred eyes?
Mossad is the secret service of which country?
Which English king summoned the Long Parliament in 1640?
What sort of creature is a nuthatch?
Which North American aquatic rodent is also known as a musquash?
Which flower has the Latin name Bellis perennis?
Which great circle may be terrestrial or celestial?
Who was the first British-born astronaut to walk in space?
In which US state is the Spurr Volcano?
On which day of the week did New Year's Day fall in 2007?
On which island is the poet Rupert Brooke buried?
Which European river is spanned by the Ponte 25 de Abril bridge?
On which mountain in Ireland (also known as The Reek) did St Patrick fast for 40 days and nights in 441AD?
Which is the world's second largest desert?
In which Middle Eastern country is the Roman city of Jerash?
In which European country is the ski resort of Sölden?
In which year did Paul McCartney have a top ten single with No More Lonely Nights?
What is the name of Tony Curtis' character in the 1957 film Sweet Smell of Success?
What type of creature is a grampus?
Who composed The Ride of the Valkyries?
In the Bible, who performed the Dance of the Seven Veils?
Who wrote The Lord of the Rings?
In which Lloyd Webber musical do Pearl, Dinah, Rusty, Greaseball, Electra and Poppa appear?
Which character in the Australian TV soap Neighbours has been played by actresses Kylie Flinker, Sacha Close and Melissa Bell?
"In olden days a glimpse of stocking was looked on as something shocking" is a line from which song?
Which member of the British royal family abandoned plans to marry Group Captain Peter Townsend in 1955?
In the Old Testament, who was given the Ten Commandments?
Of which Australian state is Sydney the capital?
To which former British coin does the slang term 'tanner' refer?
Is a 'brach' a male or female hunting hound?
From which phrase was the 1980s term 'Yuppie' originally derived?
Which group recorded the 2000 album Painting It Red?
Who wrote the novels upon which the 1970s films The Stud and The Bitch were based?
Which actor played the title role in the 1973 film Hitler – The Last Ten Days?
Which US vocalist had a 1966 UK No 1 hit with These Boots are Made for Walking?
Which two countries are connected by the Khyber Pass?
Which communist movement ruled Cambodia from 1975 to 1979?
In which country is the port of Mocha, which gives its name to a type of coffee?
What was the nationality of the actress Sarah Bernhardt?
Which unconventional director made the films M*A*S*H, Nashville and The Player?
Who is sister to Meg, Jo and Beth March in the novel Little Women?
Who was Best Actor Oscar winner for the film The Color of Money?
Bellatrix is the third brightest star in which constellation?
In the cartoon series, which town was home to The Flintstones?
Bathsheba Everdene is the heroine of which novel by Thomas Hardy?
Which English conductor founded the Academy of St Martin-in-the-Fields?
Margaret of Anjou was queen to which English king?
What sort of creature is a loon?
What is carbon-14 also called?
Into which lake does the Hay River of Alberta, Canada flow?
What job would be performed by a fossarian?
In which European country is the seaport of Kotka?
Which zoologist wrote the 1977 book Manwatching?
Who wrote the 1975 novel The Eagle Has Landed?
In which ocean does the island of Madagascar lie?
What type of creature is a taipan?
'Sausage dog' is an informal name for which animal?
In which country is Lake Baikal, the world's deepest lake?
Who wrote The Last of the Mohicans?
What term for an unconventional individual is named after a 19th century US lawyer who failed to brand his cattle?
Which 1991 film featured a family of giant beetles disguised as humans in order to save the Brazilian rainforest?
Which original Star Trek character was played by DeForest Kelley?
Which US country singer released the acoustic album Little Sparrow in 2001?
Which character in Greek mythology was able to charm all living things with his lyre playing?
Which French racing driver was World Champion in 1985, 1986, 1989 and 1993?
What is the name of Fred Flintstone's wife?
Who played the young starlet in the original King Kong film?
Who wrote the novel Room at the Top?
By what name were supporters of the Youth International Party known?
Which US retail chain was founded by Sam Walton in 1962?
What is the capital of Sierra Leone?
What sort of creature is a krait?
Which pop star married Lisa Marie Presley in 1994?
Which British band released their seventh studio album Painting in Red in 2000?
Which actress played a ballet teacher in the 2000 film Billy Elliot?
Who was the author of the poem The Lady of Shallot?
Who wrote the 1988 novel The Satanic Verses?
What is the name given to the South African coin containing one troy ounce of gold?
How many dogs take part in a greyhound race in Britain?
Naim Suleymanoglu from Turkey is a top name in which sport?
Which number lies between seven and eight on a dartboard?
Battledore is an ancient forerunner of which modern racquet game?
Which US director made the films Carrie, Scarface and The Untouchables?
Against which disease can the BCG vaccination offer protection?
What is added to vodka to make a Boody Mary cocktail?
In which athletics event did Bob Beamon hold the world record for 23 years?
Which female French singer is best known for the song Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien?
In the Old Testament, which beast is said to have 'limbs like bars of iron'?
What nationality was the composer Paul Hindemith?
Which fictional character made his first appearance in the novel The Little White Bird?
Who designed the wedding dress worn by Catherine Zeta Jones when she married Michael Douglas?
What sort of plant is a 'lady's slipper'?
What form of exercise was popularised by Bill Bowerman in a 1967 book?
In which South American country did Prince William spend ten weeks as part of an Operation Raleigh expedition?
What sort of dog has Labrador and golden varieties?
Which great Czech distance runner died in 2000 at the age of 78?
Which British actress starred in The Killing of Sister George and Entertaining Mr Sloane?
What is the name of the fielding position in cricket between cover and mid-off?
Which Canadian novel written by Michael Ondaatje won the Man Booker prize in 1992 and was adapted into an Academy Award winning film?
What type of creature might have a 'banged' tail?
What would you do with 'entremets'?
In which European country is the Furka Pass?
Which guitarist recorded the album Money and Cigarettes?
What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'ut supra'?
On which Hawaiian island is Pearl Harbor?
Who wrote the 1819 novel The Bride of Lammermoor?
What is the cube root of the number one?
Which sex symbol actress of the 1950s and 1960s was born Vera Jayne Palmer in 1933?
Which actress plays the stalker of Clint Eastwood in the 1971 film Play Misty for Me?
What nationality is runner Gabriela Szabo?
Which rap band was formerly known as Spectrum City?
Who had a 1976 hit with the song Dancing Queen?
In which year was John F Kennedy elected US president?
In which African country is the city of Umtata?
Which singer/songwriter, born in Los Angeles, recorded the album Little Criminals?
Who wrote the 1882 play An Enemy of the People?
In which year was automatic timing first used in athletics at the Olympic Games?
'Tomato sauce' is Australian rhyming slang for which animal?
Who is the cartoon adversary of the Roadrunner?
Who was the author of the novel Lorna Doone?
Santa Fe is the capital of which US state?
In which English county is the textile town of Nelson?
Who played Blofeld in the 1971 film Diamonds are Forever?
Who directed the 2001 film The Score, which starred Robert DeNiro?
Who was the author of the book I, Claudius?
Which symbol of Joan of Arc was adopted by the Free French forces leader, Charles de Gaulle in 1940?
What name did pop singer Alvin Stardust use when he led the group The Fentones?
Chisinau is the capital of which former Soviet republic in south-east Europe?
What is the capital of Argentina?
In 1845, who invented a process which revolutionised the production of steel?
Which arm of the Mediterranean Sea lies between Italy and the Balkan Peninsula?
Which novel by H G Wells is partly set in the year 802701?
In which garden near Jerusalem was Jesus betrayed by Judas Iscariot?
In which US state is the city of Omaha?
Which North American river is the chief tributary of the Mississippi?
Which Nazi leader was arrested when he made a secret trip to Scotland in 1941 in an attempt to negotiate peace?
Which is closest to the Sun: the Earth or Mars?
Who provides the voice of Artie in the 2007 film Shrek the Third?
Which US awards are given annually in the fields of journalism, literature and musical composition?
What is the name of the brown pigment made from the ink of cuttlefish?
What is the most southerly point of South America?
Which constellation includes Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky?
In South African politics, what do the initials ANC stand for?
What was the legendary capital of King Arthur's kingdom?
Which region of Canada comprises the districts of Mackenzie, Keewatin and Franklin?
What name is given to the study of the behaviour and flow of air around objects?
What name is given to the condition of having an abnormally low body temperature, often associated with elderly people?
What name is given to the proportion of water vapour in the atmosphere?
By what name are the Royal Botanic Gardens in Surrey, England, known?
Which queen of England was known as The Virgin Queen?
Who was the sixth wife of King Henry VIII of England?
In which sport do riders compete on dirt-tracks using motorcycles without brakes?
What was the name of the child (her first) born to Madonna on 14 October 1996?
In which former Crown Colony did EOKA fight for independence from Britain?
For which vinyl resin is PVA an abbreviation?
In which European country is the city of Antwerp?
The painter Domenikos Theotokopoulos is better known by which name?
The khamsin wind, which blows over Egypt, comes from which desert?
Which London street, associated with government offices, contains The Cenotaph?
What is the commercial name of the anti-impotence drug developed by Pfizer Labs?
Which English author and lexicographer was famous for his Dictionary, first published in 1755?
Of which territory of Canada, associated with a famous gold-rush, is Whitehorse the capital?
Which star cluster in the constellation Taurus is named after the seven daughters of Atlas?
Of which African country was Hastings Banda named President for Life in 1971?
What name was given to Roman citizens who did not belong to the privileged class of the Patricians?
What was the name of the programme of social reform pursued by President Harry S Truman?
Which British financial institution was founded in 1694?
Which port and resort in North Yorkshire, England, has associations with Captain Cook and Bram Stoker's Dracula?
Which comic book character's alter ego is Dr Banner?
What was the middle name of showman Phineas T Barnum?
Who directed the 2000 film Erin Brockovich?
What is the real name of Guns N' Roses guitarist Izzy Stradlin?
Who was the original female singer in the group The Beautiful South?
'Tom Thumb' is Australian rhyming slang for which alcoholic drink?
What type of creature is a galah: a cockatoo or a kangaroo?
Which England Test cricket captain was known as The Champion?
In which year did electronic digital computer Colossus first become operational?
Of what is seismology the study?
Which British Formula 1 racing driver survived a Learjet crash in May 2000?
Which city hosted the 1980 Olympic Games?
What is a 'jaconet': a type of fabric or a kind of soldier?
In which Australian state are the towns of Alice Springs and Darwin?
Which female singer had a hit single with the song What a Girl Wants?
How is the River Granta, which flows through the English city of Cambridge, otherwise known?
Which continent has the larger land mass: Antarctica or South America?
S A Waksman received a Nobel prize in medicine for his discovery of which antibiotic?
Of what is malocology the scientific study?
Which comic actor was married to Tuesday Weld and Suzy Kendall?
Who is the female star of the 2000 film Stigmata?
Which group had a 1985 hit with Sex Over the Phone?
For what was Chuck Berry imprisoned in 1979?
René Goscinny and Albert Uderzo were the creators of which famous French cartoon character hero?
What was the surname of the three brothers who were in the original line-up of The Beach Boys?
Which Four Weddings and a Funeral actress starred in the 1995 film Unstrung Heroes?
Which arch-villain was played by John Shea in the TV series The New Adventures of Superman?
Holly Golightly was Audrey Hepburn's character in which film of 1961?
Who had a UK No 1 hit in 1972 with You Wear It Well?
Which controversial former American football star played Nordberg in the Naked Gun films?
Which London landmark came from Heliopolis in Egypt?
Which popular Italian operatic tenor made his debut at La Scala in 1966?
What name is given to any animal without a backbone?
Which spice is obtained from the plant zingiber officinale?
Which London park contains the Serpentine, Rotten Row and Speakers' Corner?
Which is the oldest university in the USA?
Which apostle and martyr was originally known as Saul of Tarsus?
Of which breed of sledge dog is the Siberian the best known?
Which naturally occurring protein that helps to fight viruses was discovered by British virologist Alick Isaacs in 1957?
What is the SI unit of intensity of illumination?
Which form of partly-dehydrated gypsum is used for making casts and moulds?
Of which country is the shekel the basic monetary unit?
Which Canadian city is the capital of Ontario?
Which Canadian novelist wrote The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz?
What does the 'G' stand for in the name of the film company MGM?
Which waterway linking the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans was completed in 1914?
What name is given to a score of one over par for a hole in golf?
What name is given to a space devoid of matter?
Which British author wrote Three Men in a Boat?
Which singer was born Annie Mae Bullock in 1939?
What was the former name of Ho Chi Minh City?
Which John Lennon single was re-released to become a Top Five hit at Christmas 1999?
By what name was US-born soprano Maria Anna Kalageropoulos better known?
Which wooded region of Warwickshire in the UK is the setting for Shakespeare's As You Like It?
What is the name given to the pack of 78 cards used for fortune-telling?
Which famous Russian ballet company was established in Moscow in the late 18th century?
Of which southern US state is Montgomery the capital?
Which song traditionally sung at New Year's Eve gatherings is associated with Robert Burns?
Who was Queen Victoria's husband?
What was the name of Ebenezer Scrooge's late business partner in Dickens' A Christmas Carol?
Which Venetian artist was famous for his paintings of Venice and London?
What name is given to an amalgamation of a metal with another metal?
Which Asian republic's chief rivers are the Helm and Kabul?
In which sport might you see a twelfth man at third man?
What was the former name of Muhammud Ali?
On what date is All Saints' Day?
Who wrote the novel The Devil Rides Out?
What is the capital of India?
To which phylum do sponges belong?
Which controversial 1999 film starred Brad Pitt and Edward Norton?
According to the proverb, where do all roads lead to?
Who wrote the novel The Dubliners?
Who was Don Quixote's squire in the book by Cervantes?
Which is the largest city in Canada?
Zog was the last king of which European country?
Which US president resigned as a result of the Watergate Scandal?
In the Old Testament, which two cities were destroyed by fire and brimstone because of the depravity of the inhabitants?
Of which landlocked African country is Kigali the capital?
Which Canadian city hosted the 1976 Olympics?
Which plant is St Patrick said to have used to explain the Holy Trinity?
Which 4,000-mile long trade route connected China with the Mediterranean?
In Gaelic folklore, which wailing spirit announces someone's imminent death?
In which field was physicist William Henry Fox Talbot a pioneer?
Whose art studio was known as The Factory?
In Greek mythology, which legendary king of Corinth was condemned to roll a boulder to the top of a hill?
Which group of related African languages includes Swahili, Xhosa and Zulu?
After oxygen, which is the most abundant element in the Earth's crust?
What measure of the explosive power of a nuclear weapon is equal to 1,000 tons of TNT?
The shooting of which seabird leads to a curse on the Ancient Mariner in Coleridge's famous poem?
What sort of creature is a barbel?
DCL are the Roman numerals for what number?
What is the name of the substance released by body tissues in allergic reactions?
In which city did Anne Frank write her famous diary while hiding from the Germans?
What sort of creature is a hake?
On which Spanish 'costa' is the resort of Torremolinos?
Which Roman emperor was assassinated in the Senate House on the Ides of March?
Who came to power on New Year's Day 1959 when he overthrew the government led by President Batista?
According to Alexander Pope "a little learning is…" what?
In showjumping, what name is given to a competition that tests a horse's ability to jump large fences?
Name the British actor who played the villain in the following films: Diehard, Quigley Down Under and Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves?
Which US ragtime composer wrote The Entertainer and Maple Leaf Rag?
Paphos is an ancient city on which Mediterranean island?
Which much-criticised policy of the European Union is abbreviated to CAP?
Who wrote The Ballad of Reading Gaol?
Of which country is Manchuria a region?
Which singer/songwriter recorded the albums The Times They are A-Changin' and Blood on the Tracks?
To which saint is the fourth book of the New Testament ascribed?
Who was president of the Soviet Union from 1977 to 1982?
Who wrote The Tenant of Wildfell Hall and Agnes Grey?
Which English poet wrote Sonnets from the Portuguese?
Which sign of the zodiac is represented by a bull?
What word for 'killer' is derived from the Arabic for 'hashish-eaters'?
In Greek mythology, who was the muse of comedy?
Which German city, famous as the site of the Krupp steelworks, is the administrative centre of the Ruhr?
Which US novelist wrote Slaughterhouse Five and Breakfast of Champions?
Which peninsula of Western Asia forms the greater part of the Asian portion of Turkey?
Of which country did Hosni Mubarak become president in 1981?
The Norsemen who raided much of Europe from about 800AD were known by what name?
What name is given to swollen and twisted veins, especially in the legs?
What is the capital of Scotland?
Which four herbs feature in the English folksong Scarborough Fair?
Which book by Jules Verne tells of the adventures of Phileas Fogg and his servant Passepartout?
Which green vegetable features in the Indian dish of sag aloo?
Which colour comes before green in the colours of the rainbow?
Which country is the world's largest producer of cheese?
Mimas is a moon of which planet?
How many humps has a bactrian camel?
If 25 September falls on a Monday, on which day will Christmas Day fall in that same year?
On a standard typewriter keyboard, which letter lies between the 'B' and the 'M'?
Who plays the part of Jack Burden, a journalist, in the 2006 film All The King's Men based on the Robert Penn Warren novel of the same name?
In which South American country are the ports of Concepción, Valparaíso and Antofagasta?
In which country are the Magyars the largest ethnic group?
Which four letters often appear on the representation of the cross in Christian art?
Who became king of France in the July revolution of 1830?
Which of the gifts brought by the three Wise Men to Jesus is also known as olibanum?
In Greek mythology, which king was condemned to stand within reach of fruit and water that moved away when he tried to reach for them?
Which number system uses only the digits 0 and 1?
Which famous cowboy actor and singer was associated with the horse Trigger?
Cape Agulhas is the southernmost point of which continent?
Which British-born conductor headed the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1912 to 1938 and appeared in Disney's Fantasia?
What was the nickname of US bank robber Charles Floyd?
Who sailed in a voyage of discovery on the Santa Maria?
Who wrote the Pathetique symphony?
In 1888, who patented the pneumatic bicycle tyre?
Which is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea?
In the poem by Edward Lear, for how long did the owl and the pussycat sail?
Which character was played by Ted Danson in Cheers?
What is the more common name for Hansen's Disease?
By what is the first bugle call of the day known?
Which was the last country in Europe (as late as 1984) to give votes to women?
On 6 December 1917, several munitions ships exploded in the harbour of which Canadian port, killing over 1,500 and making 20,000 people homeless?
Name the German architect who was director of the Bauhaus School of Design from 1919 to 1928.
The Small-endians and the Big-endians appeared in the adventures of which literary character?
What name is given to the three wars fought between Rome and Carthage?
Which city in Cilicia was the birthplace of St Paul?
Name the Egyptian astronomer and geographer who lived in the 2nd century AD and who produced his Geographa Hyphegesis, and extensive guide to geography.
What name is given to the diode valve which is the source of microwaves in a microwave oven?
Sent into orbit by the Russians in 1957, what the name of the first dog in space?
Name the mongoose in Kipling's Jungle Book.
Which Frenchman wrote: "If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him"?
Who played Cruella De Vil in the 1996 movie 101 Dalmatians?
In which sport did Briton Ben Ainslie win a gold medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics?
Mary Ann Nichols was the first victim of which serial killer?
Which alloy of tin and lead was originally used for making plates and mugs?
In which part of the human body is the cochlea?
What was the name of German terrorist Andreas Baader's female partner?
President of the United Nations General Assembly 1952-3, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1957 and was prime minister of Canada from 1963 to 1968: can you name him?
What is the common name for the condition myopia?
Bartlett, Comice and Conference are types of which fruit?
In Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, who is the Queen of the Fairies?
What sort of creature is a bichon frise?
Which English novelist wrote The Cruel Sea?
In which year was the London Marathon first held?
Which Venetian merchant is famous for his accounts of his travels to Asia in the late 13th century?
Who played the title role in the 1952 film Hans Christian Andersen?
By what first name was Nelson Mandela's second wife known?
Which English poet wrote Paradise Lost?
Which chemical element is represented by the symbol Sr?
Of which planet is Phobos a satellite?
What was the title of A A Milne's second collection of stories about Winnie the Pooh?
What is the capital and chief port of Papua New Guinea?
Who was the comedy partner of Lou Costello?
In which African country is the port of Tema?
Paramaribo is the capital of which republic in South America?
What was the legendary birthplace of Romulus and Remus?
What is the brighest star in the constellation Virgo?
What is the capital of South Korea?
What is the name of the great plain of central South America between the Andes and the Paraguay River?
What is the acknowledgment in fencing that a scoring hit has been made?
Who directed and starred in the 1973 film High Plains Drifter?
Only four US states have a common meeting point: Colorado and Arizona are two of these, which are the other two?
Which US state has borders with Wyoming, South Dakota, Iowa, Kansas, Colorado and Missouri?
The soap opera Knott's Landing was a spin-off from which other US soap?
Who directed the 1941 film Citizen Kane?
What is the capital of the principality of Wales?
What was the name of the anti-war book by Erich Maria Remarque which was twice made into a film?
What nationality was the legendary motor racing driver Juan Manuel Fangio?
In 1987, Stephen Roche become the first Irishman to win what?
Who was the first British golfer to win the US Masters title?
Jose Napoles and John H Stracey are former champions of which sport?
According to Christian tradition, which saint was the mother of the Virgin Mary?
Of the eleven founder members of OPEC, which was the only South American country?
In August 1995, which of the Leeward Islands had to be evacuated due to a volcanic eruption?
In space technology, for what is 'comsat' an abbreviation?
A heptathlon comprises how many events?
Held every 12 years and lasting for several weeks, what is the name of the religious festival that attracts millions of Hindus to the River Ganges?
What name is given to rain that has absorbed sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen from the atmosphere?
Jodie Foster played Clarice Starling in Silence of the Lambs, but which actress played the role in the sequel, Hannibal?
On what date is Armistice Day celebrated?
In the Bible, the Gospel according to whom is the first book of the New Testament?
Which Canadian rock band had hits with Magic Carpet Ride and Born to be Wild?
What instrument for detecting radioactivity is named after a 20th century German physicist?
Brass is an alloy of which two minerals?
From which country does the Skoda motorcar originate?
In France, what is a TGV?
Which gas smells like rotten eggs?
Which store in the UK was the first to have an escalator installed, in 1898?
What are the celestial bodies Ceres, Pallas, Juno and Vesta?
What is the SI unit of temperature?
How many chromosomes has a normal human body cell?
Which US city is served by La Guardia airport?
Which flamboyant Canadian prime minister made a state visit to Cuba in 1976?
What type of creature is the Hawaii honeycreeper?
Franglais is a mixture of which two languages?
Rampart Street, Bourbon Street and Royal Street are famous thoroughfares in the French quarter of which US city?
Which bird of the family picadae chisels through tree bark with its long straight bill in search of insects?
Which singer was killed in a plane crash along with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper in 1959?
Of whom did Bette Midler once say "A woman who pulled herself up by her bra straps"?
What is the name of the detective created by Leslie Charteris and known as 'The Saint'?
What type of rudimentary incendiary device is named after a Russian politician?
Which US author created the detective Philip Marlowe?
What name is given to a boundary between air masses which have a different temperature and humidity?
According to legend, at whom did Peeping Tom peep?
Which Irish monk founded the famous monastery at Lindisfarne off the coast of Northumberland, England?
What is the name of the cat in The Simpsons?
In the Old Testament, who was the twin brother of Jacob?
How many heads of US presidents are carved into Mount Rushmore?
Who replaced Peter Gabriel as the lead singer of Genesis in 1975?
Of which African country is Lusaka the capital?
Which actor starred as advertising executive Nick Marshall in the 2000 film What Women Want?
Staten Island is a borough of which US city?
Which member of Whistler's family features in his most famous painting?
In which year did beach volleyball become an Olympic sport?
What were the surnames of the animators who created Tom and Jerry, The Flintstones and Scooby Doo?
In which country is the city of Abadan?
Which jazz pianist and composer won an Oscar for his score for the film Round Midnight?
What was Mickey Mouse's original name?
What does AC stand for in physics?
Which English romantic poet wrote Tintern Abbey and The Prelude?
What is the capital of the former Soviet state of Azerbaijan?
Which English poet wrote A Shropshire Lad?
From which two places did the Bren gun get its name?
What name is given to the natural painkillers secreted by the brain that resemble opiates?
Which US silent film star was known as The Man of a Thousand Faces?
Which nonsense poem by Lewis Carroll is subtitled An Agony in Eight Fits?
What name is given to the two dots placed above a vowel in German?
Which sign of the zodiac governs the period from 19 February to 20 March?
What sort of creature is a 'moccasin'?
Which child star sang On the Good Ship Lollipop in the 1934 film Bright Eyes?
On whose book was the film Fahrenheit 451 based?
Who wrote Anne of Green Gables?
Which pianist and conductor was married to the cellist Jacqueline du Pre?
In which Asian country is the city of Da Nang?
Which English historian claimed that "absolute power corrupts absolutely"?
Which Evelyn Waugh novel is a satire on the US way of death?
Which Austrian conductor and music director of the Berlin Philharmonic died in 1989?
Which British dramatist wrote Equus and Amadeus?
What feature did silent film comic Ben Turpin have insured?
Who wrote Charlie and the Chocolate Factory?
Which 2000 film starring Gwyneth Paltrow as a Las Vegas showgirl was directed by her father Bruce?
Which Greek shipping magnate married Jacqueline Kennedy in 1968?
The Fastnet Race is part of which sailing competition?
In which religion is the aim to break the chain of karma by achieving nirvana?
Who was the Greek god of war identified with the Roman Mars?
Which Asiatic people were united in the early 13th century by Genghis Khan?
What name is given to an organism living in or on another organism of a different species?
Which German author wrote the novels Steppenwolf and The Glass Bead Game?
Which is the second largest city in Mexico?
Which type of pasta is named after the Italian phrase 'small tongues'?
In Roman mythology, what was the name of the goddess of the dawn?
In which city was the mime artiste Marcel Marceau born?
In which Asian country is the city of Niigata?
What type of performer is an 'ecdysiast'?
Which African country lies immediately west of Botswana?
Which island is larger: Java or Hispaniola?
The adjective 'hepatic' refers to which of the five senses?
On which of the Hawaiian islands is Mount Tantalus?
What are the constituent elements of the alloy solder?
In which sport might you perform a 'septime'?
Which countries fought in the Battle of Rocroi in 1643?
Who created the oriental villain Fu Manchu?
Which word was originally an abbreviation of the German word 'Fliegerabwehrkanone'?
In Greek mythology, who was the father of Icarus?
What sort of creature is an 'accentor'?
Which English king was killed at the Battle of Bosworth Field?
By what name was US comedian Louis Francis Cristillo better known?
Racing driver Dale Earnhardt was killed on the final lap of which famous race in 2001?
Which professional team golf event was first contested in 1927?
Which comic police force did Max Sennett create in his silent films?
Who was the Greek goddess of the moon?
Name the Montreal-born author of St Urbain's Horsemen and Barney's Version.
Which Irish poet wrote The Lake Isle of Innisfree?
Which king led England into the Hundred Years War with France?
Who sculpted the statue of Peter Pan in London's Kensington Gardens?
Which English queen was the daughter of King Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn?
By what first name was Emad Mohamed al-Fayed known?
With which instrument is jazz musician Jack Teagarden associated?
Who made his directorial debut with Star Trek III: The Search for Spock?
By what name was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion Charles Liston better known?
Roald Dahl wrote the script for which Bond film?
Which British novelist wrote the bestseller Room at the Top?
From which English lake was Donald Campbell's Bluebird raised in 2001?
Which metal is added to copper to make brass?
Edward Whymper led the first team to climb which famous Swiss peak?
What is the capital of Canada's Yukon territory?
What was the former name of the German city of Chemnitz?
In which film does Marty go back to the year 1885?
What is the name of Viola's twin brother in Shakespeare's Twelfth Night?
Which pop star visited Britain in 2001 to address the Oxford Union on the subject of child welfare?
Which king did caricaturist James Gillray portray as Farmer George?
In which country was conductor Andre Previn born?
Which ingredient found in tonic water was the first drug used to treat malaria?
What name is given to the use in war of toxic substances on humans, animals or plants?
What sort of creature is a 'mamba'?
Which singer's first big hit was Heartbreak Hotel?
What sort of creature is a 'grouper'?
Of which US state is Atlanta the capital?
In Greek mythology, who was the last king of Troy?
Which native North American girl saved the life of Captain John Smith?
Which prime number is between 11 and 17?
Name the Canadian author of The Blind Assassin, winner of the Man Booker prize in 2001.
Which Tammy Wynette song was covered by Lyle Lovett on the album Lyle Lovett and his Large Band?
Which US city is nicknamed Big D?
What sort of animal is a macaque?
What type of entertainer is an engastrimyth?
To which period of time did the word 'sennight' refer?
What item of clothing is also known as a 'filibeg'?
Name the place near Lewes in Sussex which was the site of a famous scientific forgery of 1912.
What was the name of the ranger in the cartoon series Yogi Bear?
What nationality is alpine skier Spela Pretnar?
Which US singer had hits with Papa's Got a Brand New Bag and It's a Man's Man's Man's World?
Which Yiddish word meaning 'fit' or 'proper' is applied to food that meets the requirements of Jewish dietary laws?
Raging Bull was the autobiography of which US boxer?
Which comic actor starred in the film Me, Myself and Irene?
What is the English name for what the French call La Manche?
Which Indian novelist wrote Journey to Ithaca and Village by the Sea?
What was the first of C S Lewis' books about the kindom of Narnia?
How many lines are in a limerick?
How old was Cassius Clay when he became the 1960 Olympic Light-Heavyweight Boxing Champion?
How many points are awarded for a touchdown in American football?
Which Greek poet is traditionally considered to be the inventor of tragedy?
What name is given to a mass of soft unconsolidated sand that is unable to support any appreciable weight when saturated?
Which three Allied leaders attended the Yalta Conference in 1945?
What is the name of the famous geyser in Yellowstone National Park?
How many players are there in a netball team?
Which Jewish holiday is also known as the Day of Atonement?
Which of Shakespeare's great tragedies is set in Elsinore Castle?
What is the SI unit of force?
Which disease was deliberately introduced into the UK in the 1950s to control the rabbit population?
The second atomic bomb used against Japan in World War II was dropped on which port city?
Which Canadian songstress whose albums include The Best Damn Thing and Under My Skin had a smash hit in 2007 with Girlfriend?
What length of imprisonment is implied by the term 'double sawbuck' in the US?
Who was a Best Actor Oscar winner for the film Scent of a Woman?
Who was the composer of the oratorio The Dream of Gerontius?
How old was Andre Agassi when he first won a Wimbledon Singles title?
What in computer science is OCR?
Which company originally developed the computer mouse?
What nationality is tennis player Lleyton Hewitt?
What nationality is skier Bente Martinsen?
In 1999, Michael J Fox announced that he was suffering from which illness?
Which venomous spider gets its name from its habit of killing and eating the male after mating?
What sort of creature is an avocet?
What is the SI unit of power equal to one joule per second?
Who wrote the thriller novel Birds of Prey?
What was the stage name of US magician and escapologist Eric Weiss?
Which monolith in Northern Territory, Australia, is the largest in the world?
What name is given to the part of an insect's body that bears the wings and legs?
What nationality was the composer Carl Nielsen, who died in 1931?
Who composed the opera Tristan and Isolde?
La Brabanconne is the title of the national anthem of which European country?
Which is the inner and longer of the two bones of the human forearm?
Which Argentinian was 1998 WBA Flyweight Boxing Champion?
Who plays the title role in the 2000 film The Grinch?
What nationality is golfer Wayne Riley?
What relationship was Mike Love to Brian, Carl and Dennis Wilson of The Beach Boys?
Which Japanese city hosted the 1998 Winter Olympic Games?
Who was the first man to win both the 200- and 400-metre gold medals at the same Olympic Games?
In Greek mythology, which race of creatures was part-horse and part-man?
What sort of blood cells are also known as leucocytes?
Which US folk singer wrote Where Have All the Flowers Gone and Kisses Sweeter Than Wine?
In which Canadian province might you ski at the Kicking Horse Mountain Resort?
On which of the Great Lakes is the Michigan port of St Joseph?
On which European island are the ruins of Agrigento to be found?
Where would an Edwardian woman have worn a toque?
Which singer starred in the 1957 film Jailhouse Rock?
Who won a Best Actor Oscar for his part in the film The Godfather?
The heavy woollen cloth known as duffel is named after a town in which European country?
What is the name of the God of Thunder in Wagner's opera Das Rheingold?
Which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical closed on Broadway in 2001 after more than 7,000 performances?
Which boxer plays himself in the film Black and White during which he beats up Robert Downey Jr?
Turkish-born Canadian portrait photographer Yousef Karsh, famous for his wartime studies of Chjurchill and other national leaders, signed himself as 'Karsh of …' which city?
Which word describes a closed plane figure bounded by straight sides?
In 1999, the people of East Timor voted for independence from which country?
What is the screen name of actress Camille Javal?
Who is the patron saint of travellers?
Which hoofed ruminant animal belongs to the genus Capra?
Which large aquatic rodent lives in a lodge?
For which London building was Marble Arch originally designed as a gateway?
Which is the largest deer?
What form of laryngitis occurs most commonly in children under five years of age?
What monetary unit of Israel is worth one hundredth of a shekel?
In the high jump, what name is given to the manoeuvre of jumping over the horizontal bar backwards and head first?
What is the capital of Costa Rica?
What is the name given to the set of chalk stacks off the west coast of the Isle of Wight?
What is the chief port of Tanzania?
Which pop group's record albums include Black Celebration and Construction Time Again?
Who was the male star of the 1989 film How to Get Ahead in Advertising, directed by Bruce Robinson?
What is the capital of the US state of Delaware?
What name is given to the indicator of stock market prices; based on the share values of 30 blue-chip stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange?
Which city in south-eastern Germany on the Elbe River was almost totally destroyed by British and US air raids in 1945?
Who wrote the book on which the film Hannibal was based?
What is the largest and most luminous type of star?
Which lake in Israel is also known as the Sea of Galilee?
What sort of bird is a gadwall?
The film A Man For All Seasons was set during the reign of which monarch?
Which rare earth metal has the symbol La?
Who played Rhett Butler in the film Gone With the Wind?
Which art movement took its name from a childish French word for hobbyhorse?
Which hunter in Greek mythology was changed into a stag by Artemis and killed by his own hounds?
Who wrote the powerful novel The Grapes of Wrath?
What is the name for abnormally high blood pressure?
By what name is clarinetist and bandleader Arthur Arshawsky better known?
Which part of the eye is responsible for its colour?
Which film of a Shakespeare play stars Michelle Pfeiffer and Rupert Everett?
To which genus of plants do sweet williams, carnations and pinks belong?
Which British soldier and author wrote The Seven Pillars of Wisdom?
The Imperial Hotel in Tokyo and the Guggenheim Museum in New York are two of the best-known public buildings designed by which US architect?
What was the name of the 16th century Flemish geographer, best known for the cylindrical map projection that was named after him?
After her husband had been assassinated in 1983, who became president of the Philippines in 1986?
Which religious movement was founded by John Thomas in New York in 1848?
In which European country is the town of Neuchâtel?
From which ship did the famous bell hanging in the underwriting room at Lloyd's of London come?
Of which US city is Beverly Hills a residential suburb?
In which European city is the Galileo Galilei airport?
Which New Zealand soprano sang at the wedding of the Prince and Princess of Wales?
What name is given to the soft tissue found in the cavities of bones?
What is the name for the shaggy-coated wild ox which inhabits mountain pastures of central Asia?
Which Tuscan city hosts the annual Palio horseraces?
What type of tree was Yggdrasil, that was thought to span heaven and hell in Norse mythology?
Which rock and roll pioneer wrote Johnny B Goode and Roll Over Beethoven?
What sort of puzzle originated as education devices to teach geography?
Who was the head of RAF Fighter Command during the Battle of Britain?
Which Fatal Attraction actress starred in the 1991 film Meeting Venus as a lead soprano in the fictional Opera Europa?
What was the name of the lion in The Chronicles of Narnia?
Kurt Cobain was the lead singer with which grunge rock group?
Which oriental eating utensils originated in China?
Which Russian city was formerly called Petrograd?
Who wrote the 1976 science fiction novel Children of Dune?
Which type of writing paper measuring 13½ inches by 17 inches is named after the watermark which was formerly used on it?
Which opera by Amilcare Ponchielli contains the ballet Dance of the Hours?
What part of a horse's leg extends from the fetlock to the hoof?
Which sea is bounded by several countries, including Sweden, Finland, Poland and Germany?
In which country do the White and Blue Niles converge?
A road tunnel runs from Pelerins in France to Entreves in Italy, beneath which mountain?
To what do the French refer as Iles Normandes?
The Andaman Islands lie east of India in which great bay?
The Barents Sea is part of which ocean?
In which country is the Great Bear Lake?
Which famous London square was once known as Porridge Island because the squalid courtyards were filled with cheap eating-houses?
What is the name of the thick steak cut from a fillet of beef, which takes its name from a French writer and statesman?
Which king of Wessex was said to have allowed a peasant housewife's cakes to burn?
Who succeeded to the US presidency after the assassination of John F Kennedy?
Which medical specialty is concerned with the problems and illnesses of children?
What is the capital of New Zealand?
By what name is Reginal Dwight better known?
Which Dutch courtesan and dancer was shot by the French on espionage charges in 1917?
With whom did Bill Clinton confess to having a relationship that was "not appropriate"?
Which Russian city is the home of the Kirov Ballet?
Which Italian virtuoso violinist inspired works by Rachmaninov and Andrew Lloyd Webber amongst others?
By what name was Karol Wojtyla better known?
In 2007, who won the Best Actress Oscar for her performance in The Queen?
What nationality was Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall, the first Olympic athlete to test positive for doping use, at the 1968 Summer Olympics?
Who wrote The Tale of Jemima Puddleduck?
What name is given to a reusable spacecraft such as Columbia or Challenger?
Which Spanish city is noted for its Moorish buildings, such as the Alhambra?
Which Spanish golfer was runner-up to Tiger Woods in the 1999 USPGA Championship?
What name is given to organisms comprising an alga and a fungus in a mutually beneficial association?
Which underground plant stem is also known as a rootstock?
Who wrote Hedda Gabler and A Dolls' House?
Which British dramatist wrote Look Back in Anger?
Which was the second film in which Clint Eastwood played Harry Callaghan?
Who is the only woman to have been chosen as a running mate in a US presidential election?
Which flower is used as a symbol of remembrance for the dead of the two World Wars?
What is the diameter of a compact disc: 15cm or 12cm?
How many horses finished the 2001 Grand National: eight or four?
Which poet wrote the lyric drama Prometheus Unbound?
What is the trade name of the antidepressant drug fluoxetine?
Which country held the crew of a US spy plane after it made an emergency landing in 2001?
In computing, what does the abbreviation AI stand for?
What name is given to the indicator that casts a shadow on a sundial?
What measure of the brightness of stars can be either absolute or apparent?
Who was the messenger of the gods in Roman mythology?
Who was the messenger of the gods in Greek mythology?
Which US novelist wrote Tough Guys Don't Dance?
Which British city contains the ruins of the Roman city of Verulanium?
Of which country in the Middle East is Doha the capital?
Which title derived from the Latin 'Caesar' was borne by German emperors until 1918?
In Greek mythology, what was the name of the winged horse that sprang from the blood of Medusa?
Of which country is Reykjavik the capital?
Annapurna is a mountain in which range?
Which Russian composer died on 5 March 1953, the same day as Stalin?
Which US cavalry regiment did Custer lead to disaster at the Little Big Horn?
Which British monarch served 60 years as Prince of Wales before becoming king?
Who famously sang Happy Birthday to President Kennedy in 1962?
Which famous Russian writer died at a railway station in 1910?
The name of which lizard is derived from the Greek for 'on the ground' and 'lion'?
What is the name of the villain in Star Wars?
Who wrote the music for Starlight Express?
Who started to broadcast his weekly Letter From America in 1946?
Who wrote The Wonderful Wizard of Oz?
Which famous volcano between Java and Sumatra erupted catastrophically in 1883?
Which Australian tree is also called a gum tree?
What name is given to the study of human improvements by genetic means?
Which Mongul emperor was the grandson of Genghis Khan?
What was Miss Piggy's surname in the TV show The Muppets?
What is the sequel to the film 101 Dalmatians?
Which US president was known as Old Hickory?
With which branch of mathematics is Euclid chiefly associated?
What was the Greek name for Khufu, builder of the Great Pyramid at Giza?
In computing, what does the abbreviation LSI stand for?
From which country was the sixth Secretary General of the United Nations, Boutros Boutros-Ghali?
What is the colour of the cross on the flag of Finland?
In which year did Boris Becker first play Stefan Edberg in the Wimbledon Men's Singles Tennis Championship?
In which year did the Nuremberg Trials begin?
Which island is further north: Ibiza or Minorca?
Which battle initiated the Wars of the Roses in 1455?
In which state of the USA is the city of Amarillo?
Who succeeded Richard Nixon in 1974 as US president?
Which river was known by the Romans as Rhenus?
In the Bible, who was the brother of Martha and Mary?
Which letter in Morse code is indicated by two dots?
For what is CBS an abbreviation?
Who is the Hindu god of desire and lust?
Which is the largest lake in Italy?
What is the standard monetary unit of Iceland?
Which Greek hero of the Trojan war killed himself when the armour of Achilles was given to Odysseus?
For which 1993 film was Holly Hunter a Best Actress Oscar nominee?
Which Swedes won the 1987 Australian Open Men's Doubles tennis title?
What was the title of Whitney Houston's debut single in the UK, which hit the No 1 spot in 1985?
Which was the Oscar-winning song from Mary Poppins?
Who, in 1977, became the 39th president of the United States of America?
Which writer created The Saint?
Which US girl group hit the No 1 spot with Survivor in 2001?
What is a cep?
In which country was chemist Lars Onsager born?
Who wrote the 2001 novel The Red Room?
What chemical substance does the Haber process produce?
In which US state is the city of Tampa?
What is the capital of Jamaica?
Who wrote The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and The Master of Ballantrae?
In zoology, which order of mammals includes monkeys, apes and man?
For what do the initials ISBN stand?
Which form of gelatin is obtained from the swim bladders of various fishes?
What sort of creature is a jacamar?
Which British rock singer recorded the album Every Picture Tells a Story?
Which is the world's largest continent?
Which noisy black and white member of the crow family is attracted to bright objects?
From which ocean into which other ocean would one pass going east past the Cape of Good Hope?
In which country is the port city of Casablanca?
Which US sharpshooter, who performed in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, inspired the musical Annie Get Your Gun?
In Greek mythology, whose elopement with Paris precipitated the Trojan War?
Which US president came from a family of peanut farmers?
By what name was Haitian president François Duvalier better known?
Which soft fabric is made from the undercoat of the Kashmir goat?
What name is given to a substance that cannot be broken down into simpler fragments by chemical means?
Which English navigator was set adrift by a mutinous crew in the Canadian bay which now bears his name?
Which Armenian composer wrote the ballets Gayaneh, Spartacus and Maskarade?
In which country was the actor Robert Donat born?
With which sport was Geoff Capes most famously associated?
What was the name of Othello's wife in Shakespeare's play of the same name?
In the Old Testament, where was the birthplace of King David?
With which sport is Reggie Jackson associated?
What is Salman Rushdie's real first name?
For which month is emerald the traditional birthstone?
Which marine creature includes the varieties hermit, spider and king?
Which former country was also known as the GDR?
Which Texas city has an American football team called The Cowboys?
In which European country is the city of Katowice?
In which novel by Tolstoy does Konstantin Levin appear?
What was the title of actor David Niven's first autobiography?
Who is the hero of John Buchan's novel The Thirty-Nine Steps?
Which code used in telegraphy consists of dots and dashes?
In which 1999 Woody Allen film did Sean Penn play fictitious 1930s jazz guitarist Emmet Ray?
Which 1967 film set in America's deep south starred Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger?
Which group recorded the hit album Minutes To Midnight?
Which US guitarist and composer was the leader of the Mothers of Invention?
What name is given to a verbal device for aiding the memory, such as "i before e except after c"?
In which organ of the body is the hippocampus?
Which emperor of Japan renounced his divinity and became a constitutional monarch after Japan surrendered at the end of World War II?
In Greek mythology, who was the husband of Medea and leader of the Argonauts who sailed in quest of the Golden Fleece?
Which two countries are connected by the Simplon Pass?
What was the name of the US airbase near the English town of Newbury, where a women's peace camp was set up in 1981?
Which hard silvery metal has the chemical symbol Ni?
With which of the senses is the word olfactory connected?
What name is given to the form of ritual suicide practised by Japanese Samurai?
By what letters were the elite German military corps, the Schutzstaffel, known?
Which warlike seafaring Biblical people give their name to people indifferent to artistic or cultural values?
From what condition does Dustin Hoffman's character suffer in the 1988 film Rain Man?
Which state unilaterally declared independence from Nigeria in 1967?
Which atoll in the Marshall Islands gave its name to a form of swimwear?
Which joint is formed by the meeting of the humerus, radius and ulna?
Which actor plays William Forrester in the film Finding Forrester?
Of which US state is Frankfort the capital?
Which English novelist wrote The Children of the New Forest?
Which was the first Sunday newspaper to be published in Britain?
Let the River Run was the 1988 Oscar-winning song from which film?
The film The Claim is based on which Thomas Hardy novel?
Who was known as 'the lady with the lamp'?
In the computer abbreviation ASCII, for what does the letter 'C' stand?
Of which US state is Lansing the capital?
Which of the British Isles has three legs on its flag?
What sort of creature is a 'piddock'?
Which Oscar-winning actor starred in the film What Women Want?
On which river does the city of Manchester stand?
What is the meaning of the title Fidei Defensor belonging to English monarchs?
Which US football team won Superbowl XLI?
Who wrote The Day of the Triffids?
Which actor appeared in TV's Ally McBeal as attorney Larry Paul, after serving time in prison?
In which country was landscape painter John La Farge born in 1835?
How was actress Grace Kelly killed?
What is the meaning of the word 'karate'?
Who did Muhammad Ali beat in 1975 to retain his World Heavyweight crown?
In which game might you use a 'bonce'?
St Boniface is a suburb of which Canadian city?
What is a 'bullace': is it a type of bird or is it a tree?
Of what quantity is the ampere the SI unit?
In which Asian country is the city of Suwon?
Name the Edinburgh-born inventor of the telephone who emigrated to Canada in 1870.
Which Star Trek film has the subtitle The Voyage Home?
Richard Hadlee and Dennis Lillee are former players of which sport?
The bacterial disease glanders can be passed on to humans from which animal?
In which novel by Charles Dickens does Captain Cuttle appear?
Which composer is associated with the film The Sting?
To which house does Harry Potter belong in the novels by J K Rowling?
Pulque is a light alcoholic drink which comes from which country?
Which James Bond film was the last to use a title actually written by Ian Fleming?
Who directed the 1993 film Schindler's List?
In Greek mythology, which merman is traditionally shown blowing a conch shell?
Which Italian physicist gave his name to the SI unit of electromotive force?
Which film director released the album You Made Me Love You?
Which child cinema star was born Joe Yule?
Which is the longest river in Europe?
Who was the first bowler to take 500 wickets in Test cricket?
Which Shakespeare play concerns one of King Priam's sons?
What is the name of the petrol-thickening jelly used in incendiary bombs and flame-throwers?
Which French author was born François-Marie Arouet?
Agate is a semi-precious variety of what form of quartz?
Which Canadian chanteuse sang My Heart Will Go On in the film Titanic?
Which Scottish city is known as The Granite City?
What name is given to a straight line which joins two points on a circle and passes through the centre?
Of which African country is Luanda the capital?
What does 'CB' stand for in CB radio?
Of which organ of the body is the tricuspid valve a part?
On which river is the German city of Dresden?
In the New Testament, who was beheaded by Herod Antipas at the request of Salome?
Which medical speciality deals with the problems and diseases of old age?
In which Welsh town was the National Library of Wales established in 1911?
Which letter was transmitted in Morse code from Cornwall to Newfoundland in 1901, to the radio pioneer Marconi?
What are sevruga, beluga and ascieta?
Of which country was Tomas Masaryk president from 1918 to 1935?
Which member of the Beatles played bass guitar?
Which supermodel became Joey's roommate in the comedy series Friends?
Which female vocalist in collaboration with ELO had a 1980 UK No 1 with Xanadu?
In which English county is the Fylingdales early warning radar station?
Which is the longest river in Northern Ireland?
Which tennis player penned the 1985 autobiography entitled Being Myself?
Which happened first in geological time: the Jurassic or Silurian Period?
Which pop singer starred in the film The Man Who Fell to Earth?
Which famous diamond became Crown property in 1849 when Britain annexed the Punjab?
Who was the first Formula One racing driver to win the world title in a car of his own construction?
Which duck is the ancestor of most domestic breeds of duck?
Which instrument is pitched an octave above a flute?
Who played Sue Ellen in Dallas?
AOL is an internet service provider: what does AOL stand for?
Derived from the Latin for 'Greek hay', what 'F' is a herb of the pea family, the seeds of which are used as a spice?
Which part of London is famous for a power station and a dogs' home?
What name is shared by a market town in Nottinghamshire, UK and the largest city in New Jersey, USA?
Which noble gas has the symbol Xe?
Which US composer wrote the marches The Stars and Stripes Forever and Liberty Bell?
Which Swiss tennis player won the Men's Singles at the 2006 Australian Open?
…and which French tennis player won the Women's Singles at the 2006 Australian Open?
In which European country are the Cantabrian Mountains?
According to legend, which Danish king of England failed in his attempt to induce the waves to recede?
Which star in the constellation Carina is the second brightest in the sky?
Which river rises in Spain and flows into the Atlantic Ocean at Lisbon?
Who played the title role in the 1972 film The Candidate?
Which African headland was formerly known as the Cape of Storms?
In Russia in the 19th and early 20th centuries, how was Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov better known?
Which bird is the nearest relative of the cassowary?
Quicklime is an alkaline powder obtained by strongly heating which other material?
What type of creature is a blue beveren?
Which French king (who reigned from 1643-1715) professed to hold his power from God and is supposed to have said: "I am the state"?
The story of the Pied Piper took place in which German town?
What is the name of the three-headed dog that in classical mythology guards the entrance to Hades?
Kathmandu is the capital of which country?
Which is the largest island in Canada and the fifth largest in the world?
The aurora borealis are the northern lights: what name is given to the southern lights?
Which was the first jet-propelled commercial airliner?
In computer language, what do the initials ISDN stand for?
Which 3rd century Greek mathematician wrote Elements of Geometry?
Which German physicist devised a temperature scale with a boiling point of 212 degrees?
What does a baroscope measure?
Which British leader of an Antarctic expedition died in 1912 while returning from the South Pole?
In what type of engine is fuel ignited by compression?
Who first succeeded in transmitting a radio signal across the Atlantic Ocean?
What word means 'the bending of light' when passing through a lens?
Which medical apparatus was invented by French doctor Rene Laennec in 1816?
Which is the highest mountain in Japan?
What is the name given to an angle of less than 90 degrees?
In which year did England win the Football World Cup?
Which Montreal poet/novelist turned singer/songwriter composed the enduring ballad Suzanne?
How many English kings have been called Henry?
Which British institution is known as the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street?
How was frontierswoman Martha Jane Burke better known?
Which Spanish city holds an annual festival in which bulls are driven through the streets?
In which Middle Eastern city is the Dome of the Rock?
What name is given to the vocal organ of birds?
What type of buildings did Don Quixote mistake for evil giants?
Is Hong Kong north or south of the Equator?
Jomo Kenyatta was prime minister and president of which African country?
According to tradition, Mount Nebo in Jordan contains the tomb of which Biblical leader?
Is the tree named in Latin Fagus Sylvatica ash, beech or elm?
In which country during 2000 did the Mayon volcano erupt?
In the traditional nursery rhyme, where would you ride to see a fine lady with rings on her fingers and bells on her toes?
In cookery, 'florentine' means served with which vegetable?
In the book by Washington Irving, for how many years did Rip Van Winkle sleep?
What were the surnames of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet?
Which actress wrote the 1971 autobiography I Was Born Greek?
In which country is the highest waterfall in the British Isles?
Which country is larger in area: Norway or Belarus?
In which country is the town of Tequila?
In which year did Russia's Lunik III first send back pictures of the dark side of the moon?
Who was appointed Chancellor of the German Reich in 1930?
In which year of the 1960s was the Sino-Indian War?
With which country did Britain engage in a cod war in 1958?
In which month of 1967 was the Six Day War between Israel and the Arab nations?
Who succeeded General MacArthur in 1951 as Commander-in-Chief of UN forces in Korea?
Which country was known by the Romans as Caledonia?
In the Bible, who was the first-born son of Isaac?
Which actress starred as a Brazilian chef in the 1999 film Woman on Top?
In which year did the comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 collide with Jupiter?
Which pistol that fires a coloured flare for signalling purposes was named after a US naval ordnance officer?
Name the actor who played 'Hawkeye' Pierce in M*A*S*H and Dr Gabriel Lawrence in ER.
What is the name of the artificial language invented by L L Zamenhof in 1887?
Galena is an ore of which metal?
Which play by Shakespeare features the characters Leontes and Perdita?
Which composer became artistic director of the Vienna State Opera House in 1897?
In golf, what is the opposite of a slice?
In 2002, which Canadian author won the Booker prize for the Life of PI?
Which golfer was nicknamed 'Boom Boom'?
Name the months of the year which have exactly 30 days.
Which British prime minister became the First Earl of Stockton?
Horney Peak is the highest point of which US mountain range?
Which film star's stage appearance at Glastonbury in 1999 was greeted with a shower of fruit?
What name is given to a pathologically strong fear of something?
Which sign of the zodiac lies between Leo and Libra?
What name is given to the religious practice of driving out evil spirits?
If 'ingress' is the action of entering, what is the word for the action of leaving?
Which expression meaning 'in a meaningless or complicated language' is derived from the name of an African tribal god Mama Dyumbo?
Which French phrase describes an alluring or seductive woman, especially one who causes men to love her to their own distress?
What is the translation of the Latin phrase 'exempli gratia'?
What word was army slang for a raw recruit and is now used in sport, especially golf and American football to describe a first year professional?
What six-letter word beginning with 'g' is the name Latin Americans give to people from an English-speaking country?
Who was Meryl Streep's co-star in the 1981 movie The French Lieutenant's Woman?
Who played the title role in the two Crocodile Dundee films?
Who sang the theme song of the James Bond film Moonraker?
What are the leaves of ferns and palm trees called?
Which Danish author wrote The Snow Queen and The Ugly Ducking?
What is the largest city in Switzerland?
In which European country is the university city of Uppsala?
Which US architect designed the Guggenheim Museum in New York?
What relation was Napoleon III to Napoleon I?
In which country is the town of Ypres, the scene of three major battles of World War I?
Which German city is the capital of Bavaria?
What name is given to an official count of the population?
In which US state is the city of Anchorage?
What name is given to animals such as the gazelle, eland and gnu?
Which Canadian jazz pianist has 16 honorary degrees from North American universities?
Which African country was formerly called Upper Volta?
What is the title of the film sequel to The Silence of the Lambs?
What is the name of the country formerly known as Nyasaland?
Which US actress was known as The Sweater Girl in the 1940s?
Which US media mogul founded CNN?
Which German novelist wrote Death in Venice and The Magic Mountain?
Which actress starred with Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in the series of Road to… films?
Which Irish punk band's line-up on forming in 1975 was Bob Geldof on vocals, Johnnie Fingers on keyboards, Pete Briquette on bass and Gerry Cott and Garry Roberts on guitar?
Which actor played Starsky in the 1970s US cop series Starsky and Hutch?
Who was the god of thunder in Norse mythology?
Which French composer wrote Boléro and the ballet Daphnis et Chloë?
Of which African country is Asmara the capital?
Which monastery and palace near Madrid, built for Philip II, houses a famous art collection?
What name was given to the Chinese students organised to eliminate revisionism during the Cultural Revolution?
In which European country is the North Sea port of Esbjerg?
Which leading Nazi rocket engineer was taken to the US after World War II and worked for NASA?
What is the judicial capital of South Africa?
Which Oxfordshire mansion was a gift from Queen Anne to the Duke of Marlborough and the birthplace of Winston Churchill?
What name is given to horses bred for racing that are descended from three Arab stallions brought into England?
Which Toronto-based rock power trio have been on top of the stadium rock world since 1978?
At which Olympic sport have Louis Debray and Yevgeny Petrov been champions?
The word 'honcho' meaning boss, derives from which language?
In which game might you employ a zwischenzug?
What does the phrase 'foie gras' mean, as in 'pâté de foie gras'?
For which sporting activity would you wear salopettes?
The branch of science known as odontology refers to which part of the human body?
Which 1876 novel by Mark Twain features the character Becky Thatcher?
Which European capital city is the setting for the 1988 film American Roulette?
Which Rolling Stones song did Eddie and the Hotrods cover on their Live at the Marquee EP?
Who said: "Any girl can look glamorous: all you have to do is stand still and look stupid"?
What is the name of the omnipotent head of state in 1984 by George Orwell?
By which name is the Red Planet better known?
Which sign of the zodiac is represented by the Archer?
From which country does Valpolicella wine originate?
The Blue Ridge Mountains form part of which mountain system?
What is the name of the summer camp featured in the Friday the 13th movies?
What is the name of the captain in the novel Moby Dick?
In which country is Transylvania?
Which space shuttle exploded in 1986?
By what name is the clavicle usually known?
With which visual art movement is US Roy Lichtenstein associated?
Which Irish village is famous for its castle, which has a stone that is kissed to give the power of persuasive speech?
Which savage Scandinavian warrior's name means 'bear shirts'?
Black water fever is a serious complication of which infectious disease?
Rock crystal is a transparent colourless form of which mineral?
Which US aviator and entrepreneur became a recluse from 1950 until his death in 1976?
What name for a traitor is derived from a Norwegian who collaborated with the Nazis during World War II?
Which widely cultivated cereal grass is also known as Indian Corn?
Who plays the part of Abigail Sponder in the 2007 film Ocean's Thirteen?
Which country won the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest, with the song Molitva, performed by Marija Serifovic?
At the start of a game, how many balls are on a pool table?
What number is the base of the duodecimal system?
Whose record of 12 Grand Slam titles did Pete Sampras equal when he won Wimbledon in 1999?
In which year did Tony Blair resign as UK prime minister?
In which US state is Narragansett Bay?
Who was lead puppet in the series Fireball XL5?
Which tough TV cop, played by Stacy Keach, was created by crime novelist Mickey Spillane?
Which rock band recorded the 1976 top ten hit The Boys are Back in Town?
Which spooky comedy series featured Lurch, Uncle Fester and Morticia?
What was the food of the gods, according to classical mythology?
Who wrote the operetta The Gondoliers?
In which Charles Dickens novel does the character Uriah Heep appear?
Who wrote the 1933 book Down and Out in Paris and London?
What was the name of the Turkish city of Ankara until 1930?
Who was the lover of Leander in Greek mythology?
Cathaginian general Hasdrubal was the brother of which famous historical character?
Who wrote the book Cakes and Ale?
What does VHS stand for?
Who recorded the 1995 hit single No More I Love Yous?
Which member of the Spice Girls released the 2001 single Lullaby?
What nationality is rugby league player Yacine Dekkiche?
In which year did the Police release the single Walking on the Moon?
Which country is larger in area: Albania or Belgium?
Which is the second largest country in South America?
How many months are there in the Hindu calendar?
Which occurred first in geological time: the Permian Period or the Cambrian Period?
In which city is the Islamic shrine the Kaaba?
With which sport are Brigitte Bécue and Agnes Kovacs associated?
What was the name of the character played by actress Mena Suvari in the 1999 film American Beauty?
What name is given to flying animals of the order Chiroptera?
Which Portuguese saint is often invoked as a finder of lost property?
What does the symbol of a circle with an X across it mean when found on a clothing label?
Which two South American countries fought the Chaco War between 1932 and 1935?
Bauxite is the principal ore of which metal?
Which mountain system of South American extends from Tierra del Fuego to Panama?
What name is given to suffocation due to fluid in the air passages?
Which Czech tennis player failed a drugs test at Wimbledon in 1998?
What was the name of Don Quixote's squire?
Which Paris fortress was stormed on 14 July 1789, at the beginning of the French Revolution?
Robert Donat, Kenneth More and Robert Powell have all starred in movie versions of which John Buchan novel?
In January 2001, oil spilt from the stricken tanker Jessica posed a threat to the unique wildlife on which group of islands?
What was the name of the Greenpeace ship sunk in Auckland harbour in 1985?
What word refers to the 'restructuring' of the Soviet System?
Which two bodies of water are connected by the Straits of Florida?
Where in America is the Lone Star State?
Released in 1982, which album by Michael Jackson sold more than 20 million copies, to become the biggest-selling album in history?
Which actress plays the title role in Erin Brockovich?
According to Rossini, which German composer had "beautiful moments but awful quarter hours"?
Which is the longest river in Scotland?
What is the traditional yell of US army paratroopers when jumping out of a plane?
The song Getting to Know You comes from which musical?
Who was the only US president to resign from office?
In 1969, John Lennon officially adopted which middle name?
Which role in Dynasty was played by Catherine Oxenberg?
In the early days of rock and roll, who had a hit with Shake, Rattle and Roll?
Which Nobel prize was won by Albert Einstein in 1955?
Who succeeded Winston Churchill as British prime minister, in 1955?
Who played King Henry VIII in the film Anne of a Thousand Days?
Paradise Valley was the former name of which US city?
What nationality is weightlifter Li Feng-Ying?
The magician Drosselmeyer is a character in which ballet by Tchaikovsky?
What is Kim Basinger's character's name in the 1997 film LA Confidential?
In which city was guitarist Jimi Hendrix born?
In which month is the Kentucky Derby run in the USA?
Which group did Ian Astbury form following the split of The Cult in 1995?
Who produced the Tom and Jerry cartoons?
On which Caribbean island is the volcano Mount Pelee?
What type of foodstuff is a red savina Habanero?
Which plant is the source of tequila?
Which ocean is the larger: the Indian Ocean or the Atlantic Ocean?
Which European city was known to the Romans as Olisipo?
How much did Nokia's first mobile phone, the Mobira Senator, weigh when it was introduced in 1982, 1.7 kg or 9.8 kg?
What is the nickname given to Schubert's Quintet in A Major?
What type of creature is a wels?
What is the average gestation period of an African elephant: 26 weeks or 91 weeks?
AF is the two-letter code for which major European airline?
In a car, what is ABS?
What colour is the crown of a green woodpecker?
Of which country did Silvio Berlusconi become prime minister in 2001?
What word is used in international radio communications to denote the letter 'N'?
Where is Davy Jones's locker?
Complete the proverb: "A bird in the hand…"
Complete the proverb: "Little strokes fell…"
In Cockney rhyming slang, what is a 'china'?
What are the 'Devil's playthings'?
What does a chandler make or sell?
In food and drinks, what is aspartame a substitute for?
Name the Man Booker prize-winning Canadian author of Cat's Eye.
In which country is the town of Fez?
What is the capital of Ukraine?
Who composed the one act opera Suor Angelica?
Who played TV detective Columbo?
What is the name given to a young salmon that returns to fresh water after one winter in the sea?
What is the name of the knife with a curved blade used by the Gurkhas?
Which French sculptor created The Kiss?
Which number is represented by the letters XIV in Roman numerals?
The 1997 film Starship Troopers was based on a novel by which author?
Which 1996 film comedy starred Jack Nicholson as the US president?
What name is given to the national assembly of Spain?
Which was the first full-length Walt Disney film?
Which comic strip detective was created by Chester Gould in 1931?
What was the adopted name of Canadian-born beauty expert Florence Nightingale Graham?
Which is the lightest metal?
Who wrote the opera Elektra?
What nationality is the author Margaret Atwood?
What name for the devil means 'light bearer' in Latin?
Which poet is best remembered for his Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard?
Who succeeded Richard Nixon as US president?
Of which US state is Denver the capital?
Who wrote Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover?
What name is given to plants which complete their life-cycle within one year?
Which cotton fabric takes its name from the French city of Nîmes?
On what day is the Annunciation celebrated?
Which domesticated member of the horse family is also known as an ass?
Of which US state is Denver the capital?
What was the title of Robert Flaherty's pioneering 1922 documentary film of Inuit life?
Who composed The Song of the Earth?
What name was given to the union of Austria with Germany in 1938?
What type of creature was Ham, who survived a sub-orbital flight on 31 January 1961?
The watercolours of which painter and poet include Job Confessing his Presumption God, Who Answers from the Whirlwind?
Which European country administers the Canary Islands?
Which member of The Beach Boys recorded the 1977 solo album Going Public?
What are you in New Zealand if you are 'boohai'?
Which pioneering singer-songwriter was backed by The Crickets?
What is the name of Dick Dastardly's canine companion in the cartoon series Wacky Races?
With which instrument was the jazz musician Buddy Rich associated?
Of what is 'otorhinolaryngology' the scientific study?
Which is further east: Cannes or Nice?
Why might you avoid a 'euripus' if you were a sailor?
In which year was Nelson Mandela released from prison?
Which fictional bear is a friend of Christopher Robin?
In Greek mythology, which mountain nymph fell in love with Narcissus?
In Norse mythology, who was the god of mischief?
What creatures constitute the principal food of the aardwolf?
Which tennis player beat Serena and then Venus Williams in consecutive matches at the 2001 Australian Open?
Who was the first man to set foot on the moon?
In which European country is the city of Maastricht?
Which carbohydrate is also called milk sugar?
Which boxer was known as The Dark Destroyer?
Which Canadian TV personality is the popular quizmaster of Jeopardy?
Which book of the Bible has more chapters: Exodus or Genesis?
Of what does a bibliophile have a love?
Which US state is the largest in area: Connecticut, Hawaii or Nebraska?
The disease scurvy occurs as a result of which vitamin deficiency?
Which material is traditionally associated with a thirteenth wedding anniversary?
Who wrote the science fiction classic novel I, Robot?
In which US state was the athlete Jesse Owens born?
Which 1989 baseball film featured Tom Berenger and Charlie Sheen as team-mates?
In computing, what does the abbreviation GIF stand for?
Becky Sharp is a character in which novel?
Which novel was ceremoniously burnt by a thousand Muslims in 1989?
Which Beatle was married to Barbara Bach?
How many acres are there in a square mile?
Malev is the national airline of which Eastern European country?
What was the name of the Allied offensive in the 1991 Gulf War?
What did Colonel Thomas Blood famously steal in 1675?
Which Canadian doctor discovered insulin?
Which US state has the highest population?
Albert de Salvo is notoriously better known by which nickname?
In what type of car did Michael J Fox travel through time in the Back to the Future films?
Which star of the US sitcom Roseanne appeared in the 2000 film Coyote Ugly?
What were the first names of the Harts in the US drama series Hart to Hart?
With which musical instrument is Coleman Hawkins associated?
In Chinese philosophy, what name is given to the ethereal substance of which everything is composed?
Which literary family is associated with Haworth Parsonage in West Yorkshire?
Which clarinettist had a hit with Stranger on the Shore in 1961?
What was the name of the city where TV's The Jetsons lived?
In Greek mythology, who killed the Minotaur?
What is added to vodka to make a Screwdriver cocktail?
Who was the second son of Noah in the Old Testament?
Who composed the opera La Bohème?
Which 1977 World War II film concerned the failed Allied landings at Arnhem in Holland?
Who was the Dutch painter of The Garden of Earthly Delights?
What nationality is golfer Rikka Hakkarainen?
Which BNL hockey side signed Canadian Chad MacLeod in 1999?
The former penal colony of Devil's Island belongs to which island group?
The suburb of Laval is part of which major Canadian city?
Which island joined with Tanganyika to form Tanzania?
Georgian Bay is the north-east part of which North American Great Lake?
In which country is Lake Wakatipu?
In which constellation is the group of stars known as The Plough or The Big Dipper?
In the Old Testament, who was the wife of King Ahab?
In which century did the English composer and organist Thomas Tallis live?
What is the capital of the United Arab Emirates?
Which Italian cruise liner was hijacked by the PLO in 1985?
Which singer and actress played Evita in the 1996 film of that name?
Which pair of aviators made the first non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean?
What was the name of the songwriting brother of George Gershwin?
What is another name for the world's second highest mountain, Godwen Austen?
In which Far Eastern country is the port city of Pusan?
Which European city is further north: Moscow or Newcastle?
Which science fiction writer wrote the 1905 novel A Modern Utopia?
What was the subject of Edward Bulwer-Lytton's disaster novel of 1834 concerning events in 79AD?
What nationality is the 1991 Wimbledon tennis champion Michael Stich?
Which black US athlete upset Adolf Hitler at the 1936 Berlin Olympics by winning four gold medals?
How many balls are used in a game of snooker?
Pickles the dog enjoyed worldwide fame in 1966 after he found which sports trophy?
Where would you find a structure called an 'empennage': on a ship or on an aircraft?
In which European country is the ski resort of Cervinia?
Who was the first man to run a mile in under four minutes?
What is the title of the French national anthem?
The drama series The Waltons was set in which US state?
Lemland and Lumparland are islands in which group?
Which British band looking to build on US success had a 2001 hit in the UK with Back Here?
Which British female vocalist claimed I Only Want to Be With You in the UK top five in 1963?
Which Venetian explorer in the 14th century travelled to China where he became a diplomat for Kublai Khan?
Castles in Spain are so numerous that they have given their name to which region and former kingdom in Central Spain at the foot of the Cantabrian mountains?
Ischia is an island of which European country?
Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili lived from 1879 to 1953 and was educated in a Theological Seminary. By what name was he better known?
Which common Irish surname means 'descendant of the sea warrior'?
Triton and Nereid are satellites of which planet?
Which park was officially opened in New York in 1876?
In a symphony orchestra, which is the only stringed instrument not played with a bow?
Name the Norwegian playwright who wrote Ghosts, An Enemy of the People and The Master Builder.
Which US president ordered the dropping of the first atomic bomb?
Name the hilly area on the border between Syria and Israel which was the location of several bitter Arab/Israeli confrontations during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s.
What is the middle colour of the visible spectrum?
Gascony was a former duchy of which country?
The political groups FRELIMO and RENAMO are associated with which African country?
Which future US president was born in a small log cabin in Kentucky in 1809?
What is the meaning of the musical term cantabile?
San Juan is the capital of which island in the West Indies?
In which Eastern European country would you find the town of Ploesti and the port of Constantsa?
Which snake is used by Indian snake charmers to sway to the music of their pipes?
Which profession gets its name from the Latin word for 'lead'?
Which Christian denomination was started in 1799 by John and Charles Wesley?
Which sign of the zodiac is between Libra and Sagittarius?
What is the holiest city of the Islamic world?
Which article of clothing is named after the German for 'leather trousers'?
In which Mississippi town was Elvis Presley born?
Who was Elvis Presley's manager throughout his career?
Along with Nibbles, which twosome starred in The Two Mouseketeers, winning the 1951 Academy Award for Best Short Subject: Cartoons?
Leaving Peru in 1947, Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdahl travelled across the Pacific on a balsa raft: what was the name of his boat?
…and in which year did a documentary motion picture of the expedition win an Academy Award?
Which German battleship was sunk by British bombers at Tromsø, Norway on 12 November 1944?
What is the nationality of Reinhold Messner, the first man to climb all the 14 peaks higher than 8,000 metres?
In 1670, which company was granted a charter by King Charles II, giving it a trading monopoly over the watershed of all rivers and streams flowing into Hudson Bay?
What is the capital of the Republic of The Gambia?
In office from 11 March 1983 until 20 December 1991, Bob Hawke was the 23rd prime minister of which country?
Which Canadian rock band scored a No 1 record in the USA with American Woman?
A hurricane is categorised as Force 12 on which scale?
Which singer does Dennis Quaid portray in the 1989 film Great Balls of Fire?
In which US state is the Grand Canyon?
Which letter on a typewriter keyboard is between 'A' and 'D'?
Who captained the England team that won the 1966 Football World Cup?
Which British novelist wrote Brave New World?
What sort of creature is a drill?
To which order of insects do ants, wasps and bees belong?
Which guitarist/singer was a member of the Yardbirds, Bluesbreakers, Cream and Blind Faith?
The parietal bone is in which part of the human body?
What is the value of the brown ball in snooker?
On the London Underground, which line is coloured yellow?
In email language, what is the meaning of the acronym AFAIK?
What is the meaning of the Arabic word 'Inshallah'?
Where is the Ocean of Storms?
Which actor's daughter Cheyenne committed suicide in Tahiti in 1995?
What is the capital of Senegal?
The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi trained the Beatles in which technique?
Which instrument was played by jazz great Artie Shaw?
The famous aria 'Nessun Dorma' is sung in which opera by Puccini?
What name is given to any animal without a backbone?
What spice is obtained from the plant Zingiber officinale?
Which London park contains the Serpentine, Rotten Row and Speakers' Corner?
Which is the oldest university in the USA?
In which English county is the port of Plymouth?
Which apostle and martyr was originally known as Saul of Tarsus?
What is the capital of Poland?
Of which US state is Frankfort the capital?
Which chronic disease is caused by the bacillus Mycobacterium leprae?
How many movements are usually in a concerto?
Who wrote the song White Christmas?
Who was the British member of The Monkees?
Who played the Ringo Kid in John Ford's classic movie Stagecoach?
Which system of writing developed for the blind by a French teacher uses characters made up of raised dots?
From which European country does gruyère cheese come?
Which unit of speed is equal to one nautical mile per hour?
Of which country is Mount Kosciusko the highest peak?
With which sport are the Queensberry Rules associated?
Which South African leader of the Black Consciousness movement died in police custody in 1977?
For which country did the cricketer Sunil Gavaskar play?
Jean Valjean is the hero of which novel, which was turned into a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber?
What is the standard monetary unit of Spain?
Who wrote the children's book The Wind in the Willows?
What is the meaning of the word 'moribund'?
What was the surname of the Little Women in the book of the same name by Louisa M Alcott?
What is the first name of Gulliver in the book Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift?
What is the medical name for the human thighbone?
Who was the sweetheart of Yogi Bear in the cartoon series?
Yellowstone National Park covers three US states: Montana and Idaho are two, which is the third?
Which ship, a major London tourist attraction, was damaged by fire on the morning of 21 May 2007?
Is a culverin a type of weapon or a type of drainpipe?
Which British author created the detective Albert Campion?
Which comic strip features Snoopy, Charlie Brown and Linus?
The adjective 'lupine' relates to which family of animals?
In which European country is the port of La Coruña?
Which athletics field event was formerly known as the 'hop, step and jump'?
To which film was The Jewel of the Nile a sequel?
Which Italian actor starred in A Fistful of Dollars and Lucky Luciano?
What relation was novelist Isabel Allende to the overthrown Chilean president Salvador Allende?
Which modern artist's works include the 1899 painting Three Tahitians?
In which country is the port of Tangier located?
Salt Lake City is the capital of which US state?
Which actor, preparing for his 1990 role as Hamlet said: "I'm playing Shakespeare – and I may not win"?
In which movie does Montgomery Clift play a priest who is told of a murder in confessional?
What is the name of the earthenware, usually with a blue and white pattern, originally made in a town in Holland?
Of what is toxicology the scientific study?
Which studio album by Sting includes the song Russians?
Which darts player is nicknamed The Power?
Who wrote the 1950 novel The Martian Chronicles?
To be 'stabbed with a Bridport dagger' is to be killed by which method?
Of which former Soviet republic is Vilnius the capital?
Which Italian seaport is the capital of Apulia?
What does the 'E' stand for in the formula of Einstein's theory of relativity?
Which Jane Austen novel features the character Elinor Dashwood?
Which Welsh poet wrote the radio play Under Milk Wood?
Of which US state is Nashville the capital?
Which French museum contains the Venus de Milo and the Mona Lisa?
In which African country is the state of Tigré?
Which breed of dog has Cardigan and Pembroke varieties?
What was the name of Prince's character in the 1984 film Purple Rain?
In which ocean are the Marshall Islands?
Which US city was the setting for Ross and Rachel's drunken marriage in the sitcom Friends?
Which sculptor's works include the 1921 bronze Turning Torso?
If you suffer from 'balletomania', for what do you have a passion?
Which US prison is nicknamed Big Q?
What is a 'cockatoo' to an Australian criminal?
Which river flows through the Austrian capital, Vienna?
In which US state was the TV drama The Waltons set?
Who was the Czech composer of the opera The Bartered Bride?
In Greek and Roman mythology, what name was given to the river in the underworld, the water of which caused those who drank it to forget their former lives?
In Greek mythology, who was the goddess of the sea and the wife of Poseidon?
In Greek legend, who was the goddess of epic poetry and chief of the nine muses?
In the mythology of native North Americans, what did they call their great spirit?
What nationality was the 17th century landscape painter Meindert Hobbema?
Who was the ancient Egyptian god of the dead, renewal and rebirth?
In Greek legend, Polyphemus was one of which race of giants?
Who was the Roman god of agriculture and the father of the gods?
The minotaur was the offspring of a bull and the wife of King Minos – what was her name?
Juno was the wife of which god?
What was the first James Bond film?
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is a typical example of which film sub-genre?
Who was the sister of the legendary King Arthur?
Which giant bird legend is common to many native North American tribes?
Black Donald is otherwise known as whom in Scottish folklore?
What was the name of the Looney Tunes amorous skunk?
Which island in the Mediterranean lies directly to the north of Sardinia?
What name is given to a comic drama that uses improbable and exaggerated situations, usually with stereotyped characters?
Whose album of 2001 was entitled Chocolate Starfish and the Hotdog-Flavoured Water?
What was the name of the spacecraft which conveyed Yuri Gagarin into space in 1961?
Actresses Ursula Andress and Linda Evans were both married to which actor and director?
Which religion's most sacred books contain the teachings of Mahavira?
In 1981, President Reagan announced the dismissal of 12,000 striking members of the PATCO Trade Union. What was their occupation?
Which 20th century US composer wrote Appalachian Spring?
Before making a fortune from the manufacture of firearms, which US inventor is best remembered for his invention of the cotton gin?
In 1994, which reclusive US actor published his autobiography Songs My Mother Taught Me?
What title was given to the rulers of Baghdad and later the sultans of the Ottoman Empire until it was abolished in 1924?
Which African country was formerly called French Sudan?
Which British county is nicknamed 'The Garden of England'?
The 2007 Best Animated Feature Film of the Year Oscar was awarded to which film?
Os is the symbol for which chemical element?
Which Nobel prize-winning physicist was born in Tonbridge, Kent, in 1903?
Which has the higher melting point: copper or iron?
What is the name of the Polish river on which the city of Poznan stands?
Which famous English ballerina was born Lilian Alicia Marks?
Which actor plays a sleazy tabloid publisher in the 1997 film LA Confidential?
Who plays Roz Doyle in the sitcom Frasier?
With which card-game is Ely Culbertson associated?
Little Girl Lost is a biography of which Hollywood actress?
Which singer has been given exclusive use of the island of Ellidaey by the Icelandic government?
Of which country is Douala the capital?
What is the official language of the Central American country El Salvador?
In which US city is the Everson Museum of Art?
Which substance is usually associated with a 15th wedding anniversary?
Which Hollywood actor provided the voice of Rocky the Rooster in the animated film Chicken Run?
Who wrote the novels Jamaica Inn and Rebecca?
What type of creature is a 'moderlieschen'?
What is the collective noun for locusts?
In which country are the Ilopango and Izalco volcanoes?
Which poet's volumes include 1899's The Wind Amongst the Reeds?
Which Australian-born actor wrote the autobiography My Wicked, Wicked Ways?
What is the brightest star in the constellation Boötes?
Which Russian tsar was the subject of a play by Pushkin and an opera by Mussorgsky?
Which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical was performed on rollerskates?
Pete Townshend is associated with which rock group?
Which historical character was played by Mel Gibson in Braveheart?
Which US tennis player defeated Bjorn Borg in the 1981 Men's Singles Final at Wimbledon?
By what name was Arthur Stanley Jefferson known, as the comic partner of Oliver Hardy?
Which US general was famous for vowing "I shall return"?
By what name is Lady Haden-Guest better known as a Hollywood actress?
How many countries changed their currencies to the Euro in January 2002?
Which Hungarian-born actress provided the voice of Bianca in the Disney Rescuers films?
In which English county is the Vale of Eden?
What was artist John Callcott Horsley the first to design?
What is a two-man bobsleigh called?
Which beauty contest was the brainchild of Eric Morley, who died in 2000?
In which German city would you see the Brandenburg Gate?
In computing, for what does HTML stand?
Which imaginary country was the setting for The Prisoner of Zenda?
Which state underwent several recounts to decide the outcome of the 2000 US presidential election?
Who was the mother of Liza Minnelli?
Which English river flows through Newcastle, Gateshead and Jarrow?
Which unit of distance is equal to the mean distance from the Earth to the Sun?
Of which country was Mohammed Riza Pahlavi the shah until 1979?
What name was given to the military alliance between the Soviet Union and East European states signed in 1955?
In Hinduism, what name is given to the sum of one's actions carried forward from one life to the next?
Which of the apostles refused to believe in the resurrection until he had seen Christ?
Which US dancer, singer and actor was born Frederick Austerlitz?
Which German town is famous for its castle which was used as a high-security POW camp in World War II?
Who wrote the play Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead?
In 1971, which Canadian folk singer released the international hit If You Could Read My Mind?
Who won the 2007 World Championship snooker title?
Which canine mammal is also known as a prairie wolf?
Which order of insects includes bees and wasps?
Which blackish mineral is the principal source of radium and uranium?
The River Douro in south-west Europe forms part of the border between which two countries?
In Greek mythology, which fruit induced forgetfulness in those who ate it?
Which town in Umbria, Italy, was the birthplace of St Francis?
In which African country is the port of Agadir, which was largely destroyed by an earthquake in 1960?
Of what is phytopathology the scientific study?
In Canada, what is the RCMP?
By what name is the European freshwater fish tinca tinca better known?
In which South American country did the ballroom dance the tango originate?
Which British dramatist wrote A Man for all Seasons and the screenplay for Lawrence of Arabia?
In which Italian city is the Uffizi Art Gallery, which contains the art treasures of the Medici family?
Which syndrome is also called myalgic encephalomyelitis?
Which substance used as a form of riot control is also called 'lachrymator'?
Which armoured military vehicle was invented by Ernest Swinton?
What name is given to the tough fibrous cords that connect muscles to bones?
Which is the largest of the Canary Islands?
Which Irish band released their tenth studio album All That You Can't Leave Behind in 2000?
Which Friends actor starred in the film Lost in Space?
Which wild west frontiersman was shot dead while playing poker in Deadwood in 1976?
What is the capital of Namibia?
In which European country is the city of Winterthur?
What is the name of Bertie Wooster's manservant in the stories by P G Wodehouse?
In Shakespeare's The Tempest, what is the name of the spirit that does Prospero's bidding?
What name is usually given to a holy war waged on behalf of Islam as a religious duty?
Which US comedienne married Desi Arnaz in 1940?
What name is given to the promontory of basalt columns on the coast of Antrim in Northern Ireland?
What is the name of the tiger in Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Books?
Who was the first president of the Republic of Indonesia?
Who did German army officer Von Stauffenberg attempt to assassinate in 1944?
Who was the lead singer of the group Black Grape?
Valeriy Maslov of the USSR won eight gold medals between 1961 and 1977 at the World Championships of which team game?
In which sport might you perform a Danish swipe?
On which US city was the first Monopoly game based?
How many months of the year have 31 days?
What was the former name for the temperature scale now called Celsius?
Who was the first woman to make a solo flight across the Atlantic Ocean?
Which word beginning with the letter 'A' and derived from the Spanish for 'affection', describes an ardent supporter of a particular interest or hobby?
Snooker players Bob Chaperon, Alain Robedoux and Jim Wych all originate from which country?
Named after a character in Fellini's film La Dolce Vita, what is the name given to photographers who follow celebrities?
F is the chemical symbol for which highly reactive, pale yellow halogen gas?
What is the name of the British territory on the Iberian Peninsula?
Which sweet, syrupy organic liquid is the basis of all fats and oils and is also used in the manufacture of explosives?
The letters RF on a stamp would indicate it is from which country?
In which country does the River Rhine rise?
Which of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World was located near present-day Alexandria in Egypt?
In which ocean does Iceland lie?
What is the English name for the French region of Bretagne?
What does the Latin term 'bona fide' mean?
What name is given to the formation of fibrous tissue in an organ, especially in the liver?
What is the capital of Slovakia?
Which early calculating device consists of balls strung on wires or rods and set in a frame?
In which country is the town of Dum-Dum?
Which comedian plays the 'groovy' spy Austin Powers?
Which traditional Scottish dish may be boiled in a sheep's stomach?
What sort of winged creature is a monarch?
To which genus of plants do oranges, lemons and limes belong?
Who wrote the opera Lohengrin?
In which sport did Janet Evans win three gold medals at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, setting a new world record in the 400-metre freestyle event which lasted until Laure Manaudou broke it in May 2006?
In which European capital city was actress Ingrid Bergman born?
Which country music singer and earlier rock singer of Rockin' Robin was born Harold Lloyd Jenkins?
Which member of the Beatles was born Richard Starkey?
What name is given to the 21 books of the New Testament that were written as letters?
Irian Jaya forms the western part of which island?
With which meat is horseradish sauce traditionally served?
Which Venetian painter of the Renaissance gave his name to a shade of red?
Which Welsh mining village was the scene of a 1966 disaster that killed more than 100 children?
In which London borough are the Houses of Parliament situated?
What did George Eliot describe as "snowy, flowy, blowy, showery, flowery, bowery, hoppy, croppy, droppy, breezy, sneezy and freezy"?
In the human body, what is the more common name for the trachea?
Which creature sold a ring to the owl and the pussycat, for one shilling?
The resort towns of Tremezzo and Menaggio are on the shores of which Italian lake?
Which of the tropics lies immediately to the north of Cuba: Cancer or Capricorn?
Found in the Premier Diamond Mine in Transvaal in 1905, what is the name of the largest diamond ever found?
Whose law states that "work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion"?
In aviation, what is meant by the abbreviation STOL?
Which Indian statesman had the nickname Pandit?
Which British adventure novelist wrote King Solomon's Mines and She?
Which Australian comedian's characters include Sir Les Patterson?
Which sleep disorder is also known as somnambulism?
What does the musical term 'da capo' mean?
Which European city is famous for its Spanish riding school?
What was the name of the caste of warriors in feudal Japan?
In which country of the former Soviet Union is the city of Samarkand?
With which instrument is jazz musician Charlie Mingus associated?
In the metric system, what word stands for 'one millionth'?
Hg is the chemical symbol for which element?
The Ardennes are a range of hills which extend through France, Belgium and which other country?
Which US comedienne once said "I don't work out. If God wanted us to bend over, he'd put diamonds on the floor."?
Presbyopia affects which part of the body?
In Greek mythology, who was the goddess of the underworld and the daughter of Zeus and Demeter?
In Greek mythology, who was the only mortal gorgon?
Founded in Moscow in 1780, what is the name of Russia's principle ballet company?
Which deep-toned Aboriginal wind instrument was popularised by Rolf Harris?
What was the first name of the famous Italian tenor Caruso, who died in 1921?
In which island group is Ibiza?
The authorized version of the English Bible, which appeared in 1611, is named after which king?
Which Canadian rock band had a massive hit with Takin' Care of Business?
What name is given to the first six books of the Bible?
Who famously sailed in HMS Beagle?
What type of song is a doxology?
Who was the legendary son of British king Luther Pendragon?
Zanzibar is an island off which country?
Which actress has a life-jacket named after her?
Whose first No 1 hit was Rivers of Babylon?
In which film does Pat O'Brien play a priest, father Connoly, and James Cagney play a gangster, Rocky Sullivan?
With which opera singer did Freddie Mercury re-record Barcelona in 1992?
Which building has the address of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington DC, USA?
What type of camera was invented by Edwin Land in 1948?
What element has the symbol Pb?
Introduced in 1982, of what was the Epson HX-20 the first of its kind?
Which planet has a Great Red Spot as wide as the Earth?
How many sides has a nonagon?
What colour is formed by mixing green and red light?
What was the name of the first US satellite, launched on 31 January 1958?
After hydrogen, what is the second most abundant element in the universe?
What is measured by a calorimeter?
Which general commanded the Mexican troops at the Battle of the Alamo?
Which woodwind instrument is descended from an ancient Middle Eastern folk instrument called a shawm?
What is the meaning of the word 'soporific'?
The Titantic was a vessel belonging to which shipping line?
Alexander Selkirk was the inspiration for which fictional character?
If 'A' is 'alpha' and 'K' is 'kilo', what is 'P'?
What is the name of the French Stock Exchange?
What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'tempus fugit'?
How many glasses would you get out of a magnum of Champagne?
Who was the cult leader of The People's Temple, who convinced hundreds of his followers to commit suicide in Guyana in 1978?
Who directed the films The Leopard, The Damned and Death in Venice?
From which plant is Mexican tequila distilled?
The childhood disease rickets is caused by a deficiency of which vitamin?
Which garden pest is also known as a thunder fly?
What name is given to the study and history of words?
Which South American soldier and statesman was known as The Liberator?
In which South American country is the port of Fray Bentos?
Of which African country is Conakry the capital?
Which island in the Pacific Ocean was settled by mutineers from the Bounty and Tahitian women in 1790?
What name is given to an ionised gas produced at extremely high temperature?
Which film star was known as 'The Duke'?
Of which planet is Hyperion a satellite?
What were the first names of author G K Chesterton?
Which long-necked wading bird has crowned, whooping and sandhill varieties?
Which was the first film to be directed by Danny DeVito?
Which Italian poet wrote The Divine Comedy?
Which organization controls horseracing and racehorse breeding in Great Britain?
Which French entertainer starred in the films Love in the Afternoon and Gigi?
Which courtier of Dionysius the Elder had to sit beneath a sword hanging by a single thread?
Which European country was the first to legalise euthanasia?
Which of the knights of the Round Table had an adulterous affair with Guinevere?
What is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea?
In the Old Testament, which city was captured by Joshua when its walls fell at the blast of the Israelites' trumpets?
Which famous battle is known as Custer's Last Stand?
What are the names of Shakespeare's Two Gentlemen of Verona?
In which film did Peter Sellers play the US president, an ex-Nazi scientist and a British RAF officer?
The Monument in London was designed by Sir Christopher Wren to commemorate which event of 1666?
What was the name of the state council of ancient Rome?
What was the name of the principal legislative assembly of Russia from 1906 to 1917?
What type of Spanish music and dance was developed by Andalusian gypsies?
Which British-born US comedian starred in the films Paleface and The Cat and the Canary?
Who directed the 1926 classic silent film Metropolis?
Which nocturnal animal takes its name from the Afrikaans for 'earth pig'?
What name is given to the bureaucracy that implements government policies?
Kingston is the capital of which island in the West Indies?
In the Old Testament, who was the father of Joseph?
Which Tibetan word is another name for the Abominable Snowman?
Who wrote the novel Mosquito Coast?
In which English city is the Clifton Suspension Bridge?
What name is given to the part of the body between the diaphragm and the pelvis?
What was the name of the plane which dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima?
From which disease did tenor Jose Carreras recover, to resume his career in 1988?
At which Pacific port does the Trans-Siberian Railway terminate?
Which is the smallest state of the USA?
In the UK, which Roman frontier was 73 miles long and ran from Wallsend-on-Tyne in the east to Bowness on the Solway Firth in the west?
In which country was tennis player Martina Navratilova born?
Which constellation takes its name from the Latin for 'swan'?
What nationality was the psychiatrist Sigmund Freud?
Which US poet and critic broadcast fascist propoganda during World War II?
What name is given to the group of underwater plateaus south-east of Newfoundland, around which are the richest fishing grounds in the world?
What was the first name of novelist D H Lawrence?
Cinnabar is the chief ore which metallic element?
Which Charlie Chaplin film was banned in the USA?
Which English physicist and mathematician was born on Christmas Day 1642?
Who was the first chancellor of West Germany?
Which English novelist wrote The Ipcress File?
Which Russian city was formerly called Leningrad?
What was the name of Dick Dastardly's car in the cartoon Wacky Races?
After which Roman god is January named?
Which Spanish composer wrote the Concierto de Aranjuez for guitar and orchestra?
What type of creature created panic at the Lipton Tennis Championships in March 1997, causing a match between Venus Williams and Ginger Helgeson to be held up for 18 minutes, until the creature was caught?
In which year did the Titanic sink?
Who wrote the opera The Snow Maiden?
According to a traditional Irish song, who "wheeled her wheelbarrow, through the streets broad and narrow"?
Which rock band, best remembered for their song Born to be Wild, took their name from a 1920s novel by Herman Hesse?
In 1969, when Armstrong and Aldrin became the first men to walk on the moon, who piloted the orbiting capsule and stayed aboard?
What measurement of petroleum is defined as 42 US gallons?
Who wrote Finnegan's Wake?
What is another name for the grey or white wolf?
In which sea is the Dogger Bank?
Which of the Great Lakes in North America is the largest?
On which continent are the McMurdo Dry Valleys to be found?
Which scavenging, dog-like animal has striped, spotted and brown varieties?
Who made up The Odd Couple with Jack Lemmon?
Which Scottish village hosts the best-known Highland Games?
Which religious group featured in the film Witness?
In radio, what does 'AM' stand for?
How many millimetres are there in a kilometre?
Which French monarch was known as 'The Sun King'?
What name is given to a star that explodes and increases in brightness by a million times or more?
Foil, epée and sabre are disciplines in which sport?
Fine Gael and Fianna Fail are the two main political parties of which country?
Who killed Duncan I, King of the Scots from 1034 to 1040?
What is the capital of Turkey?
What name is given to a swelling in the wall of an artery, caused by a weakness?
Madame Du Barry was the last mistress of which French king?
Anne of Bohemia was queen to which English king?
Which sea channel separates the mainland of Australia from Tasmania?
What name is given to the cleaning of fabrics or garments using a solvent other than water?
In which European country is the village of Fatima, a centre of Roman Catholic pilgrimage?
Which actress played Scarlett O'Hara in the 1939 film Gone With the Wind?
Which ski resort is famous for the Cresta Run?
What name for an irregular soldier or freedom fighter comes from the Spanish for 'small war'?
What is the usual date of the vernal or spring equinox?
Which French city is famous for its annual 24-hour race?
The disease scurvy is caused by a deficiency of which vitamin?
By what name is Swiss-born French architect Charles-Edouard Jeanneret known?
What name is given to the placenta when it is expelled following delivery of a baby?
What was the first name of Argentinian revolutionary Che Guevara?
Which fortified wine takes its name from Jerez de la Frontera, where it was originally made?
Which Canadian journalist anchored the ABC World News Tonight for over 20 years?
Who wrote the novel Life and Loves of a She Devil?
In which country was shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis born?
Who played Angel in a television spin-off series from the show Buffy the Vampire Slayer?
For which sport is the Espirito Santo Trophy awarded?
Louping ill is a disease of which animal?
In ancient Egypt, what would a canopic jar have contained?
In zoology, if something is acaudal, what does it lack?
In which gambling game is the phrase 'a cheval' used?
Which chesspiece makes L-shaped moves?
Which US novelist created the detective Philip Marlowe?
Which Swiss resort on Lake Geneva hosts an annual television festival which awards a Golden Rose?
From which European language is the South African 'Afrikaans' derived?
On which New York island are Broadway, Wall Street and Central Park?
Which coastal region on the Adriatic Sea gives its name to a dog with a spotted coat?
Which US comedienne and actress was born Caryn Johnson?
Which rock star was born Gordon Sumner?
In which country was Britain's adopted tennis player Greg Rusedski born?
Which warm, dry wind is named after the North American native word for 'snow-eater'?
What was the name of the ship belonging to the environmental pressure group Greenpeace, which was sunk by French intelligence agents?
At which film festival are the Golden Lions awarded?
Which ship, launched in 1906, became the basis of battleship design for more than 50 years?
Who wrote the music for the ballet Coppélia?
Who was the first gymnast to score a perfect 10 in Olympic competition?
Which actor made his final film appearance as Proximo in Gladiator?
From which country does the wine Tokay come?
Which South African Zulu organization was founded by Chief Buthelezi in 1975?
Which colourless acid found in sour milk is used in the preservative E270?
What is the common name of the poisonous plant hyoscyamus niger which yields the drug hyoscyamine?
Who wrote the 1937 novel The Citadel?
In the fairy story Jack and the Beanstalk, what does Jack exchange for magic beans?
The adjective 'equine' is used to describe which animal?
Tamale is a dish native to which country?
What is the non-technical name for the part of the body called the talus?
In which continent are the Atlas mountains?
In The Wizard of Oz, what is the name of the dog belonging to Dorothy?
By what name are non-wizards known in the Harry Potter books of J K Rowling?
How many yards make up one mile?
Which was the first film to feature Lauren Bacall?
In the stories by J R R Tolkien, what relation is Frodo to Bilbo Baggins?
By what name was jazz composer and pianist Ferdinand Joseph La Menthe better known?
What is the name of the alphabet used for writing Russian?
What were the names of The Blues Brothers played by John Belushi and Dan Ackroyd in the 1908 film?
Which was the first film of the National Lampoon's series to star Chevy Chase?
Who played the lead in the film Life of Brian?
Which British dramatist wrote The Caretaker and The Birthday Party?
Which is the brightest star in the constellation Leo?
Which holiday is observed on the first Monday in September in the US?
What is the executive capital and largest city of Tanzania?
Which hand tool was used for threshing grain until the mid-19th century?
What contribution did Dimitri Tiomkin make to the film High Noon?
Which singer appears in the 1993 film Body of Evidence?
Which flag is also known as Old Glory?
Prior to 1971, how many pennies were there in an British pound?
Which tribe was led by Crazy Horse?
Which line of latitude lies 23.5 degrees south of the Equator?
Which Paris boulevard runs from the Arc de Triomphe to the Place de la Concorde?
What does a natural trumpet not have?
The River Rhine flows through which country immediately before entering the North Sea?
Which Greek island lies close to the coast of Albania?
How many tentacles has a squid?
What was the stage name of actress Harlean Carpentier, the original Blonde Bombshell?
Of which fruit is morello a variety?
Which Irish novelist, famous for his ghost stores, wrote Uncle Silas and In a Glass Darkly?
Which presidential retreat in the Appalachian Mountains was the venue for peace agreements between Israel and Egypt in the 1970s?
What was the nationality of the composer César Franck?
Which unorthodox US chess player beat Boris Spassky in Reykjavik in 1972, to become World Champion?
What sort of beans are used to make baked beans?
By what name is the mouth organ also known?
Which rare antelope is the national emblem of South Africa?
What sort of labour-saving device was patented by Isaac Merrit Singer in 1851?
Which Ukrainian town was the site of a nuclear reactor explosion in 1986?
What name is given to vegetarians who will not eat any food of animal origin whatsoever?
Transylvania is a part of which eastern European country?
Which skin condition is also known as hives and nettle rash?
At the foot of which famous mountain is the Swiss ski resort of Zermatt?
What name is given to a blade that can be attached to the muzzle of a firearm?
Which men's athletics competition consists of ten events over two days?
Who wrote The Spy Who Came In From the Cold and A Small Town in Germany?
Which US science fiction writer founded the Church of Scientology?
In which country is Mount Sir Sandford in the Selkirk Mountains?
Who were the two male leads in the 1997 film Blood and Wine?
Who was the designer of the British aircraft the Spitfire, which was used in the Battle of Britain?
Who is the female star of the 2000 film The Next Best Thing?
Which Oscar-winning actress played Pearl Slaghoople in the 1994 film The Flintstones?
Who played Mr Step in the 1997 film Spice World?
Who won the 1998 World Championship snooker title?
In fencing, what is a 'balestra'?
What type of creature is a jumping mouse: a bird or a rodent?
What is the name given to the end of a hammer head opposite to the striking face?
Under which two US presidents did Henry Kissinger serve as Secretary of State?
How often does Halley's Comet visit Earth?
What did Dorothy Parker famously remark when told of the death of President Coolidge?
How many movements are usually in a symphony?
Who painted The Laughing Cavalier?
In human anatomy, what is the name of the large intestine?
Which Nazi, together with his wife and six children, committed suicide in 1945?
What is the name given to the official stamp on gold and other precious metals?
In the Bible, who is the father of David?
Which cocktail consists of whisky and sweet vermouth?
Which 1986 film features the Queen song Who Wants to Live Forever?
What was the name of the ship in which Captain Cook discovered Australia?
Which female British singer-songwriter was killed in a speedboat accident in 2000?
Who wrote Le Morte d'Arthur?
Which film director married Madonna at Skibo Castle?
Of which country is Colombo the capital?
Which US jazz singer was known as 'Lady Day'?
Of which country did Jean Chrétien become prime minister in 1993?
What sort of creature is a curassow?
In the Old Testament, which prophet was carried up to heaven in a fiery chariot?
Of which Central African country was Milton Obote the president from 1966 to 1971 and from 1980 to 1985?
Which German author wrote the short novel Death in Venice?
What was the official newspaper of the Communist Party in the old Soviet Union?
What name was given to the bubonic plague epidemic which ravaged Europe in the 14th century?
Which famous actor played Bill Sykes in the 1968 film version of Oliver!?
Which director made a cameo appearance in every one of his films from The Lodger of 1926 onwards?
Which 1990 film starred Al Pacino as a cop in pursuit of a criminal played by Robert De Niro?
Which country takes its name from the Latin word for 'southern'?
What is the general name for any hoofed mammal?
Which Roman highway running across Italy was named after Appius Claudius Caecus?
What was the nickname of the German World War I pilot Manfred von Richthofen?
Which former British liner is a tourist attraction at Long Beach, California?
Which small marine crustaceans are the principal food of whales?
Which US guitarist and singer who died in 1970 had a hit with Purple Haze?
In Greek mythology, who was the daughter of King Priam, whose prophesies were not believed?
What sort of creature is a klipspringer?
Which word for the citadel of any Russian city was once synonymous with the Soviet government?
Which king of Judaea ordered the Massacre of the Innocents?
What nationality was the surrealist painter René Magritte?
Which Roman Catholic order of friars is known as the Black Friars?
Which dwarf planet has a moon called Charon?
Which Scottish electrical engineer gave a public demonstration of television in 1925?
In religious doctrine (especially Roman Catholic) what name is given to the place or state in which souls are believed to undergo a limited amount of suffering to make amends for their sins?
What type of creature is a waterbuck?
Renal is an adjective relating to which part of the body?
Who is the patron saint of the country of Wales?
Apiphobia is a fear of what?
King Charles and English springer are types of which breed of dog?
Which Asian capital city was known as Batavia until 1949?
Which edible nut of the American hickory tree is similar to a walnut?
What is the capital of Japan?
What is the latitude of the Equator?
Which precious metal has the symbol Pt?
In which US state is the city of Seattle?
What name is given to minute or microscopic animals and plants that live in fresh or salt water?
Which beheading device was used extensively in the French Revolution?
Which element has the symbol Er?
What sort of creature is a planarian?
What name is given to the tiny disc-shaped structures in blood, that help it to clot?
Which is the shallowest of the Great Lakes of North America?
Which US author wrote The Holcroft Covenant and The Icarus Agenda?
In Arthurian legend, which Knight of the Round Table was the son of King Lot?
Which country is the setting for the Shakespeare play A Midsummer Night's Dream?
Which US astronomer predicted the existence of a planet beyond Neptune?
A portrait of which US president was sold for 20 million dollars in March 2001?
Which English dramatist wrote The Lady's Not For Burning?
Who was the first British prime minister to use Chequers as his country residence?
With which boy band did Ritchie Neville spring to fame?
Which US nuclear-powered submarine was the first vessel to circumnavigate the world underwater?
How many films did Fred Astaire make with Ginger Rogers?
Who played Gandhi in the 1985 film of the same name?
Which British-born female Hollywood star was given the nickname 'Hockey Stick'?
Who wrote the First World War poem Dolce et Decorum Est?
Which US singer and entertainer was known as 'The Golden Foghorn'?
Which Irish flautist is known as 'The Man with the Golden Flute'?
Who played the manipulative junkie Renton in the film Trainspotting?
Which country is the setting for the 1971 film Walkabout?
Who appeared in Dangerous, Jezebel and Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?
What word describes an ancient Roman building used for administration and also applies to a church such as St Peter's in Rome?
What word meaning 'a person who suffers death rather than denounce their belief in a cause or religion' comes from the Latin for 'witness'?
Which Danish-born comedian and pianist died in 2000 at the age of 91?
Who wrote the influential book How to Win Friends and Influence People?
In which US state is the headland known as Diamond Head?
Which famous square is on the east side of the Kremlin in Moscow?
What nationality was the composer Carl Nielsen?
What was the first name of the famous furniture designer Heppelwhite?
Which British boxer needed emergency surgery after a fight in December 2000?
What name is given to a monologue in which a character in a play speaks his thoughts aloud?
Which sociologist, historian and economist co-wrote the Communist Manifesto with Friedrich Engels?
What name is given to an aquatic mammal with four limbs modified into flippers?
Under what name was actor Michael Caine knighted?
What name is given to the night of anti-Jewish rioting which took place in Germany on 9 November 1938?
Which Spanish artist painted The Persistence of Memory?
What is the fifth book of the Old Testament?
Which British monarch died in January 1901?
Coronas, cheroots and panatellas are types of what?
Which US actor starred in the films Cool Hand Luke and The Hustler?
In which US state is Mount Elbert the highest peak in the Rocky Mountains?
Which English conductor founded the Promenade Concerts in London?
What is a fly agaric?
Which Scottish village was famous for clandestine marriages?
Which member of the Kennedy political dynasty was assassinated in 1968?
What does a dendrophobiac fear?
In which year did Margaret Thatcher first become British prime minister?
What collective name is given to organisms such as moulds, mildews and mushrooms?
Most commonly used as a Christmas tree, by what name is the tree picea abies better known?
What is measured in pascals and millibars?
Which terrorist organization hijacked the cruise ship Achille Lauro in 1985?
To which disciple did St Paul address two New Testament epistles?
Forest Whitaker won the Best Actor Oscar in 2007 for his performance in which film?
The Zugspitze is the highest mountain of which European country?
What is the name of the female reproductive part of a flower?
What is the name given to the mass of lympoid tissue at the back of the throat behind the uvula?
In which Italian city is the famous La Scala Opera House?
Which Phoenician prince in Greek mythology slew the dragon guarding the Spring of Ares?
The Monte Rosa Massif stands on the borders of which European countries?
Which winter sport are Anton Fischer and Jeffrey Jost associated?
Which sport is played by the New Jersey Devils?
What nationality is golfer Colleen Walker?
Which female singer had a 1983 Top Ten hit with the song Move Over Darling?
In the Old Testament, who was the elder brother of Moses?
Which nut comes from the South American tree Bertholletia excelsa?
What name is given to the lowest temperature that can theoretically be obtained?
In which US state is Cincinnati?
What sort of creature is a chuckwalla?
What name is given to the decorative stonework supporting the glass in Gothic windows?
Which tube connects the middle ear with the throat?
Which family group had No 1 hits in the 1970s with Tragedy and Night Fever?
Who played the title role in the 1991 gangster film Bugsy?
Name the Canadian who directed Titanic and later proclaimed himself 'King of the World' at the Academy Awards?
The Egyptian god Apis took the form of which animal?
What is the highest number on a roulette wheel?
In which African country did the Coptic church originate?
Who scored England's only try when they beat Australia 20-17 in the 2003 Rugby World Cup final in Sydney?
By what name is the plant solanum tuberosum, introduced into England by Sir Walter Raleigh, better known?
Which highly venomous snake can extend its neck ribs to form a hood?
Which instrument in an aircraft measures height above sea level?
Which metallic element has the symbol K?
By what abbreviation is polyvinyl chloride better known?
In horticulture, what name is given to the propagation method in which part of one plant is transferred onto another?
What name is given to the extensive grasslands of the interior of North America?
What name is given to marks on the body of a living person, resembling the wounds that Christ received on the cross?
What is the capital city and chief port of Tasmania?
Who was the first boxer to beat Muhammad Ali as a professional?
Which English artist noted for his pictures of swimming pools was the subject of the 1974 film A Bigger Splash?
Which Charles Dickens novel features the character Fagin?
Which naval administrator is famous for his diary, which includes descriptions of the plague and the Great Fire of London?
In Norse mythology, what was the home of the principal gods, linked to Earth by the rainbow bridge Bifrost?
Which light silvery white metallic element has the symbol Mg?
Who is head of state of Monaco?
In 1992, which Canadian baseball team became the first non-US team to win baseball's coveted World Series?
In North American slang, what is a 'sky bear'?
Which bird makes its first appearance on the seventh day of Christmas in the song The Twelve Days of Christmas?
What type of creature is a 'nilgai'?
Which island of the Mediterranean Sea is separated from Italy by the Straits of Messina?
What is 'lincrusta'?
What might you do in East Africa if you had a 'kanzu'?
Which comedian thinks he has only two weeks to live in the 1939 comedy Never Say Die?
Which city is the setting for the 1973 film The Sting?
What nationality was WBC Super Featherweight Boxing Champion Cornelius Boza Edwards?
Which French fashion designer launched the first 'ready-to-wear' collection for men, in 1960?
Who was the first black officer to hold the highest military post in the USA?
Which novel by Jeffrey Archer describes the competition between four men to become prime minister?
The powerful defoliant sprayed by US forces in Vietnam was known by what name?
Which animal is also called a honey-badger?
Which pop star bought a piano which belonged to John Lennon for more than £1 million at auction in 2000?
Who was the Greek goddess of agriculture?
Which food additive is also known as MSG?
What kind of animal was Flipper in the 1960s TV series of that name?
Which US author wrote The Catcher in the Rye?
Which girl group had a 1966 hit with the song Sweet Talking Guy?
Which actor directed and starred in the 1973 film Antony and Cleopatra?
Who was the first husband of actress Brigitte Bardot?
In 1989, Burma changed its name to what?
What did the Netherlands East Indies become in 1945?
In which month is the horserace Le Prix de l'Arc de Triomph run?
Which island in Indonesia is the largest of the Lesser Sunda Islands?
In Hindu mythology, what is the food of the gods that bestows immortality?
What are the names of the rival gangs in the 1961 film West Side Story?
Which rock star produced the 2001 film Enigma?
In Greek mythology, who was the daughter of Agamemnon who helped her brother Orestes to kill her mother Clytemnestra?
Which famous invention did James Hargreaves name after his daughter?
In Norse mythology, what was the name of the hall to which the Valkyries carried the bodies of fallen warriors?
Which Old Testament character maintained his faith in God, despite losing his family, property and health?
In which year did Margaret Thatcher become the first woman prime minister of the United Kingdom?
Which Indian city gives its name to a type of riding breeches?
What is the capital of Algeria?
Which French patriot was otherwise known as the Maid of Orléans?
What is the largest city in South Africa?
From which Indian Ocean port of call could you visit the Pettah Bazaar and the Cinnamon Gardens?
Which Canadian actor starred in the Back to the Future trilogy of films?
Where were the 1994 Winter Olympic Games held?
Coal and long-tailed are types of which bird?
What chemical substance is formed by the interaction of an acid and a base?
The ounce is another name for what type of leopard?
What nationality was the composer Chopin?
In a game of darts, what is the value of the outer bull?
In the Christmas carol, which town is known as Royal David's City?
With which three countries does Luxembourg share borders?
Who did Hervé Villechaize play in the Bond film The Man With the Golden Gun?
The Swaythling Cup is competed for in which sport?
São Miguel is the largest of which group of Atlantic islands belonging to Portugal?
Honshu and Hokkaido are two of the main islands of which country?
Which girl group had a 2000 No 1 single with the song Black Coffee?
In snooker, how many points is the green ball worth?
Who drove the Ring-a-Ding Convert-a-Car in the cartoon series Wacky Races?
What nationality is canoeist Renn Crichlow?
Which solo artiste had a 1999 Top Ten single with Waiting for Tonight?
Olof Palme first became prime minister of which country in 1969?
Christiania is the former name of which European capital city?
Which actor directed and starred in the 1983 film Sudden Impact?
Who was the Roman goddess of the hunt and of the Moon?
Which pop singer was born Reginald Dwight?
Which husband and wife team created the television puppet series Thunderbirds?
On which sea is the port of Odessa in Ukraine?
What is Eithne Ni Bhraonain's more familiar name?
Which Biblical herd ran into the sea and drowned after being driven mad?
In which year did Italian fascist dictator Benito Mussolini die?
Who composed the soundtrack for the film Titanic?
A barber, a banker and a fireman all feature in the lyrics of which Beatles song?
Which semi-classical instrumental group included John Williams and Herbie Flowers?
Which French post-Impressionist painted poster designs connected with the Moulin Rouge?
Who painted The Virgin of the Rocks in the early 16th century?
Which family of comic actors starred in the films Duck Soup and A Night at the Opera?
What is the largest state of the United States of America?
What name is given to an agent that kills germs or prevents them from multiplying?
Of which South American country is La Paz the administrative capital?
Which English noblewoman is said to have ridden naked through the streets of Coventry?
What name is given to the art of handwriting?
Which author wrote The Moon and Sixpence?
Which driver halted Michael Schumacher's run of six successive victories by winning the 2001 Brazilian Grand Prix?
Which king was the subject of Shakespeare's first history play?
Which Michael Caine film ends with a bus on the edge of a cliff?
In which African country did the Mau Mau operate in the 1950s?
In which African country is the city of Fez?
Which famous first class train was inaugurated in 1883, running from Paris to the Black Sea?
What name is given to the conversion of sugar to alcohol by the action of yeast?
Who played the part of Sir Thomas Moore in the 1966 film A Man for All Seasons?
Of which country was Daniel Ortega head of state?
Who is the patron saint of Ireland?
Which international Christian organization was founded by William Booth in 1865?
What is the Beaufort Scale used to measure?
In which US state is the city of Houston?
Who is the mother of actress Vanessa Redgrave?
In Greek mythology, which many-headed monster was killed by Heracles as one of his Twelve Labours?
Who was the last British king to appear in battle?
Which boxer won a compensation against the BBBC in 1999, eight years after a fight against Chris Eubank?
In which Californian city is the Rosebowl Game played annually?
Who became Queen of The Netherlands in 1980?
Which port city can be seen to its best advantage from the top station of the Fløyen mountain railway?
What name is given to the extensive grasslands of eastern Russia and Central Asia?
Which spectacular cave on the Hebridean island of Staffa inspired the Hebrides Overture by Mendelssohn?
Who wrote The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare?
Which US actor starred in the films The Magnificent Seven, Bullitt and Papillon?
Do stalagmites grow upwards or downwards?
Hilversum is the location of which country's main radio and television broadcasting centre?
Which gas used in advertising signs has the symbol Ne?
What is the name of the small transverse flute that is accompanied by drums in military bands?
Which branch of mathematics uses symbols to represent unknown quantities?
Of which breed of sledge dog is the Siberian the best known?
What is the disease 'pertussis' more commonly known as?
Which of the disciples of Jesus was the brother of Andrew, and a fisherman?
What is the broad sash tied in a large flat bow at the back and worn as part of Japanese national costume called?
In which year did Malta become independent?
Who wrote the 2001 children's book At the Crossing?
Which solo artist had a 1999 Top 10 single with  Man! I Feel Like A Woman?
UIT is the international governing body of which sport?
In which country is the seaport of Trieste?
Which are the highest type of clouds, stratocumulus or cirrus?
What name is given to the European blister beetle, once used in powdered form as a supposed aphrodisiac?
What is astronaut Buzz Aldrin's real first name?
Of which US state is Madison the capital?
What nationality was the painter and etcher Paul Klee?
Which British spy defected to the Soviet Union in 1951 with Guy Burgess?
Which British actress married Laurence Olivier in 1961?
In Arthurian legend, what was the name of the wizard who counselled King Arthur?
What is the capital of Thailand?
What is the innermost planet of the Solar System?
What is the name of the official Washington residence of the US president?
Which Canadian actress starred in Baywatch and also married and divorced rock drummer Tommy Lee?
What is meant by the musical expression 'legato'?
In which sport do the players wear a shaped wicker basket attached to the forearm?
How many bytes are there in a megabyte?
The ciliary body is in which part of the human body?
Aphrodite was the daughter of which Greek god?
In the 1870s in Pennsylvania, the Molly Maguires were a secret organisation of what type of worker?
Phenol is also called what type of acid?
Who wrote The Shape of Things to Come?
What was the surname of Billie Jean King when she reached her first Wimbledon Singles Final in 1962?
Which town in northern Italy is famous for violins made there by the Stradivari family?
The port of Ghent is in which country?
Which US state is known as 'The Heart of Dixie'?
The stars Alnitak, Alnilam and Mintaka together make up the 'belt' of which prominent constellation?
In which 1979 film did Meryl Streep win her first Oscar?
Of what is pedology the study?
Copra is the dried kernel of which fruit?
What are you doing if you are in a state of erubescence?
What does a nyctophobiac fear?
In which classic book are there are race of apelike people called Yahoos?
Which poison is represented by the letters Cn?
Which film was advertised as having a cast of 125,000?
What was the surname of the uncle and nephew who discovered the north magnetic pole?
Which English poet wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner?
Which English fashion designer opened the boutique Bazaar in the Kings Road in 1957?
Which actress starred as Buffy the Vampire Slayer in the TV series of the same name?
Who wrote the novel All Quiet on the Western Front?
In which city is the former cathedral of Hagia Sophia?
What is the name of Patrick Stewart's character in Star Trek: The Next Generation?
What is the SI derived unit of radiation dose equivalent?
In which year did Marilyn Monroe die, aged 36?
How many months are there in the Sikh calendar?
Who founded the city of Quebec in 1608?
Which country lies between Estonia and Lithuania?
Which film actress did the tennis player John McEnroe marry in 1986?
Which 2000 film saw Arnold Schwarzenegger coming face to face with his clone?
In which European country is the ski resort of Madonna di Campiglio?
From which English city would a Brummie come?
Which city is the setting for the 1957 film The Prince and the Showgirl?
Who wrote the novel About a Boy, which was adapted into a 2002 film starring Hugh Grant?
Which fabric used especially for military uniforms gets its name from a Hindi word meaning 'dust-coloured'?
What is the name of the small flap that prevents food and fluid from entering the windpipe?
What name is given to the compilation of dictionaries?
Who was the leader of the Gunpowder Plot?
Which US track and field athlete won four gold medals at the 1984 Olympics?
Of which European country was Enver Hoxha leader from 1954 to 1985?
Which specialized agency of the United Nations is known by the initials WHO?
Who was the Greek goddess of love, identified with the Roman goddess Venus?
What colour is a female blackbird?
In Egyptian mythology, what was the name of the jackal-headed god of the dead?
What name is given to the back part of a golf club head where it bends to join the shaft?
Which cult TV series featured Kyle MacLachan as agent Dale Cooper?
What nationality is cricketer Usman Afzaal?
Under the pseudonym of Apollo C Vermouth, who produced I'm the Urban Spaceman by the Bonzo Dog Do-Dah Band?
On which island is the Canadian seaport of Sydney?
Who was the author of the classic novel The Three Musketeers?
Rothesay is a town on the east coast of which Scottish island?
Who wrote the 1947 play A Streetcar Named Desire?
How many moons has Mars?
Which French actress stars in the 1969 comedy film The April Fools, with Jack Lemmon?
Which island boasts the Dettifoss and Gullfoss waterfalls and the Hekla volcano?
Which country lies between Estonia and Lithuania?
Which French sculptor is famous for works such as The Kiss and The Thinker?
Which adult male singing voice is lower than tenor and higher than bass?
Approximately how long is the Great Wall of China: is it 1400 miles, 1500 miles or 1600 miles?
Which Turkish city was formerly known as Byzantium and Constantinople?
To which famous literary figure was Anne Hathaway married?
What was the name of the wife of Odysseus, who remained faithful during his long absence?
From which former province of Spain did Cervantes' Don Quixote come?
Which former Spice Girl was appointed as a Goodwill Ambassador for the UN Population Fund?
Which hi-tech company introduced the iPod sound carrier system?
Which Canadian actor portrayed Captain Kirk in the original Star Trek television show?
What name is given to a self-propelled underwater missile?
In which South American country does the Orinoco River originate?
Of which island in the Mediterranean Sea is Cagliari the capital?
Who is the patron saint of sailors?
What is the capital of Guyana?
What term was used by Europeans in the Middle Ages to refer to Muslims?
Which German composer wrote the cantata Carmina Burana?
Which famous US baseball player was known as 'The Sultan of Swat'?
What sport is played by the Carolina Panthers?
What is another name for the Russian Wolfhound?
In 1926, what did Variety magazine describe as "a new development in radio"?
Which rock band disbanded four months after the death of its founder, Jerry Garcia?
What kind of creature is a 'blind snake'?
The Mozambique Channel separates which island from mainland Africa?
In which US state is Anchorage?
By what name was Roman emperor Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus better known?
In 1988, who became the first woman elected to govern a Muslim nation?
Where was the first convict settlement established in Australia?
What name is given to members of a Protestant church which baptises only those considered old enough to accept the Christian faith?
In which museum and art gallery is the statue Venus de Milo housed?
Which confederation of native North American Plains tribes was also known as the Dakota?
Of which US state is Columbia the capital?
What is the fourth largest continent?
Which Indian religion was founded by Guru Nanak?
What name is given to the aquatic larvae of frogs and toads?
Who was the Spanish founder of the Jesuits?
Of which Canadian province is Edmonton the capital?
Which hot wind blows from the deserts of North Africa, across the Mediterranean to southern Europe?
Which city hosted the 2004 Olympic Games?
Which cyclist won the Tour de France from 1991-1995?
In which country was tennis star Monica Seles born?
In which event did Daley Thompson win two Olympic gold medals?
What is the value of the black ball in snooker?
Who wrote the 1875 novel The Way We Live Now?
In which Australian state is Lake Disappointment?
Which of the Beatles is following the other three across a zebra crossing on the album cover for Abbey Road?
Which creature's name derives from the Greek phrase 'fearful lizard'?
In Australian slang, what is a 'jonnop'?
Which book of the Bible has more chapters: Jonah or Micah?
In heraldry, if an animal is sejant, how is it represented?
Which is the smallest European owl?
Which controversial rap star appeared at the 2001 Brit Awards with a mask and chainsaw?
Which anarchic punk band had a UK top 5 hit in 1977 with God Save the Queen?
What type of animal is the emperor turned into in the 2000 Disney film The Emperor's New Groove?
In Sikhism, what is a kara?
In the Bible, who was the sixth son of Jacob?
In which European country might one find a spectacled salamander?
In which South American country is the Itatinga waterfall?
Which puppeteer created The Muppets?
Which island of the Netherlands Antilles gives its name to a liqueur flavoured with orange peel?
Which English monarch was known as 'The Virgin Queen'?
What nationality was former World Heavyweight Boxing Champion Ingemar Johansson?
Which detective died in Agatha Christie's novel Curtain?
Which is the smaller of the two main islands of New Zealand?
Which English-born writer wrote The American Way of Death?
By what name was Joseph Merrick known when he appeared in freak-shows?
Which breed of dog is noted for its blue-black tongue?
Which US actress starred in Anatomy of a Murder, Days of Wine and Roses and The Omen?
Which Ottawa-born singer, composer and teen idol wrote Frank Sinatra's anthem My Way?
Which 2001 film starred Robert De Niro and Kelsey Grammer?
What is the medical term for weakening of the bones?
Which country singer and actor married Julia Roberts in 1993?
In which constellation are the stars Castor and Pollux?
Wayne Gretzky is a legend in which sport?
Which country won the 1970 Football World Cup?
With how many pieces does a player start a game of chess?
In which country is the Magny-Cours motor racing circuit?
Which team game was originally called mintonette?
Which 1995 Jean Becker film starred Gerard Depardieu and Vanessa Paradis?
In which decade did gangster Al Capone die?
In which year did Texas gain independence from Mexico?
What shape is a 'clevis'?
Rathlin Island lies between which two parts of the British Isles?
If you have 'hypermnesia' what are you good at?
The name of which god of the Philistines in the Old Testament meant 'lord of flies'?
What was the name given to the journey of about 6,000 miles undertaken by around 100,000 Chinese communists between 1934 and 1935?
Who was the author of the play The Glass Menagerie?
Who played Carolyn in the film American Beauty?
In which Italian city is Leonardo da Vinci's famous fresco painting The Last Supper to be found?
What nationality was the artist Jan Vermeer?
Which English monarch acknowledged his Roman Catholicism on his deathbed in 1685?
Which English poet and novelist wrote Not Waving, but Drowning?
Which variety of celery is grown for its turnip-like, edible root?
What is the most commonly-spoken language in Quebec, Canada?
What was the name of the IBM computer that beat reigning World Chess Champion Gary Kasparov in a six-game series in New York in 1997?
"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want" is the first line of which Psalm?
What name is the Russian equivalent of John?
Carlos Menem, Leopoldo Galtieri and Juan Peron have all been presidents of which country?
How many players are in a polo team?
Whose stories include The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?
Who sang the title song for the 1965 film What's New Pussycat?
Who wrote the 1937 book Of Mice and Men?
Which republic occupies the western part of the island of Hispaniola?
On which river is the German industrial city of Cologne?
Which bowed stringed instrument is the alto of the violin family?
What is the derived SI unit of electrical resistance?
Which comedian stars in the 1923 silent comedy Safety Last?
Which Walt Disney film was recreated as a stage musical in London in 1999?
Which billionaire stood as a candidate in the US presidential elections in 1992 and 1996?
What sort of creature is a 'mud puppy'?
Who did Pat Cash beat in the Men's Final of Wimbledon in 1987?
What name is given to the outermost region of the Sun's atmosphere?
Which character in Greek mythology fell in love with his own reflection?
Who wrote On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection?
Which prolific US author wrote Riders of the Purple Sage?
Which is the sixth book of the Old Testament?
Which US lawman killed Billy the Kid?
Which young Jewish girl is famous for the diary she kept while her family hid from the Nazis in Amsterdam?
Which is the highest-pitched woodwind instrument in an orchestra?
Who was the first professional England cricketer to be knighted?
What is the capital of Greece?
In which novel by Charles Dickens does the character Bill Sykes appear?
In the Old Testament, which Midianite priest became Moses' father-in-law?
Which US actress became Princess Grace of Monaco?
With which athletics event is Sergey Bubka associated?
Which US writer claimed that "men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses"?
What is the oldest of the three classic races that constitute the American Triple Crown?
In Greek mythology, what name was given to a one-eyed giant?
On which island is the Sinharaja Forest Reserve?
Which UK national trail runs from Edale to Kirk Yetholm?
Of which former Soviet state is Tashkent the capital?
Off which US state is the island of Nantucket, a former whaling centre?
Which bone of the body is also called the innominate bone?
Who composed the Water Music and Music for the Royal Fireworks?
Which US president was nicknamed 'Ike'?
Who directed The Pink Panther films?
Which chess piece can only move diagonally?
Who wrote the 1960 book Born Free?
In which Scottish city is the University of Strathclyde?
Which country was known by the Romans as Lusitania?
Rickets is a disease caused by a deficiency of which vitamin?
From which country was the seventh Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan?
…and what was the nationality of his successor, Ban Ki-moon?
In which European country might one be awarded The Order of the Elephant?
SK is the abbreviation of which Canadian province?
In which US city is the Henry Ford Museum?
In which decade of the 20th century did Japan join the United Nations?
Which boxer was known as 'The Brown Bomber'?
Which sea was known to the Romans as Mare Internum?
Which sport was invented by James Naismith in 1891?
What fabric covers a snooker table?
Shinty is a form of which sport?
Which book of the Bible has more chapters: Jeremiah or Job?
In which sport does a hooter sound at the end of the game?
What is the capital of Norway?
Which scientist wrote A Brief History of Time?
Which author introduced the word 'robot' into the modern vocabulary?
What was the first name of the 19th century English cookery writer, Mrs Beeton?
What sort of triangle has sides all of a different length?
In the Peanuts cartoon strip, what sort of creature is Woodstock?
In The Simpsons, who is headmaster at Bart and Lisa's school?
What is the nickname of Beethoven's Piano Sonata No 14?
Which pop duo were originally called Tom and Jerry?
Point Marroqui is the most southerly point of which continent?
How many yards in a chain?
What is another name for the upper incisor teeth of elephants?
Which form of competitive skiing derives its name from a Norwegian word meaning 'sloping track'?
In which country are the Sierra Madre mountains?
What is the colour of the pigment vermilion?
When in Russia would you eat zakuski?
Which Old Testament patriarch was the founder of the Hebrew religion?
Who wrote Gulliver's Travels?
Which US golfer, credited with popularising the sport, won The Open Championship in 1961 and 1962?
Who succeeded Clement Attlee as Labour party leader in 1955?
What is the capital of Lebanon?
What metric unit of volume is equal to one cubic decimetre?
Which member of Boyzone had a solo No 1 hit in 1999?
What sort of creature is a palamino?
Name the Canadian comic mastermind behind Saturday Night Live.
What is the usual British name for the fuel also called kerosene?
Which acid has the chemical formula H2SO4?
Which actress and singer was married to Kurt Weill?
In which country is the city of Meerut, where a famous mutiny began in 1857?
Which hard-grey metallic element is also known as wolfram?
What name is given to the hunters and gatherers who inhabited Australia before European settlement?
On which island is the volcano Hekla?
Who wrote the ballets Swan Lake and The Nutcracker?
Of which Central American country was General Noriega the leader?
Which British king abdicated in 1936?
Which veteran singer-songwriter won the award for Best Original Song at the 2001 Oscars?
With what sort of books is author Louis L'Amour chiefly associated?
With which sport is Kareem Abdul-Jabbar associated?
Who wrote the book The Cat in the Hat?
Which Shakespeare play features Ferdinand, the King of Navarre?
Which community for homeless boys was founded by Father Edward Flanagan in Nebraska in 1917?
What was the pen-name of the author John Griffith Chaney?
Abigail was one of the wives of which Biblical king of Israel?
By what name is the central keep of the Tower of London known?
Which Austrian city, twice the venue for the Winter Olympics, is the capital of the province of Tirol?
Which US novelist wrote The Bostonians and The Turn of the Screw?
What sort of creature is a mandrill?
Which Thracian gladiator led a revolt against Rome in 73BC?
By what name is propanone, used as a solvent in nail varnish remover, more commonly known?
What ancient name is given to the land between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in present-day Iraq?
Which city on the River Vienne is the centre of the French porcelain industry?
How many teeth has the normal human adult?
Which city replaced Rio de Janeiro as the capital of Brazil in 1960?
Which sweet yellow liqueur, consisting of brandy and eggs, originated in The Netherlands?
What pen-name does J K Rowling use as the author of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them?
Children's TV favourite Pingu was created in which country?
A griffin has the body of which animal?
Who was the first wife of King Henry VIII of England?
Who created the detective Sam Spade?
What is another name for the atmospheric phenomenon aurora borealis?
In which US state is the hi-tech industrial region known as Silicon Valley?
On television, who regarded himself as being "smarter than the average bear"?
In which war did the Battle of Leyte Gulf take place?
Which legendary US vocalist had a top five single in 1969 with Lay Lady Lay?
What form of transport is a 'travois'?
What is another word for an alligator pear?
Which country in Africa is immediately west of Egypt?
In which game is a 'cayman' used?
Which US state is further north: Alabama or Utah?
Which Spanish artist's paintings included 1934's Girl Reading at a Table?
If an actor 'dries' what does he or she do?
In which industry would neroli oil be used?
What is the square root of 16?
Which legendary singer/songwriter was killed on 8 December 1980?
Which Canadian newsreader went on to play the patriarch in the hit TV show Bonanza?
Which British writer penned The Hunting of the Snark?
Of which country was Faisal Ibn Abdul Aziz king, from 1964 to 1975?
What does the number L represent in Roman numerals?
Which is the world's deepest ocean?
Who wrote the novels Emma and Persuasion?
Which Kentucky army post is the location of the US gold bullion depository?
What was the title of the fourth Star Wars film to be made?
Who directed the films Lawrence of Arabia, The Bridge on the River Kwai and Dr Zhivago?
What is the name of the small blood vessels that connect small arteries with small veins?
If it were possible to sail due north from the north coast of Scotland (the Arctic ice being your only barrier!) in which country would you make landfall?
The name of which alcoholic drink is derived from the Gaelic 'uisge beatha', meaning 'the water of life'?
After which English scientist is the SI unit of electrical capacitance, the farad, named?
By what name was blues and folk singer Huddie Ledbetter known?
What sort of creature is a sea butterfly?
What name is given to the movement for reunification of the various branches of the Christian church?
By what name was Scottish King Robert I known?
Which city is known as Firenze to the Italians?
Who wrote the music to the operas The Marriage of Figaro and Don Giovanni?
Which term translates as 'lightning war' and was used to describe military tactics used by Germany in World War II?
When is the feast day of St Valentine?
Of which British crown colony is Hamilton the capital?
Name the unpredictable Canadian musician who composed Heart of Gold?
What is the term for the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel?
Of which band was guitarist Paul 'Bonehead' Arthurs a founder member?
In which European country are the forested highlands of Hunsrück?
Who wrote The Citadel and Hatter's Castle?
Which Turkish city was formerly known as Smyrna?
Which noted Soviet filmmaker directed Battleship Potemkin and Alexander Nevsky?
Who is the only British prime minister to have been assassinated?
Who was the last king of Lydia, famous for his wealth?
Which essayist and critic collaborated with his sister Mary on Tales From Shakespeare?
Who was the supreme deity of Greek mythology?
Who was the first Australian to win the Women's Singles title at Wimbledon?
What is the capital of Russia?
Which well-known children's story was written by Swiss author Johann Weiss?
What is the vegetable 'courgette' known as in the USA?
What was the South Dakota site of the last major battle between North American natives and US troops in 1890?
What sort of creature is a lammergeier?
Of what is chrystallophobia the fear: crystals or the colour green?
Which football team won the first UK FA Cup final at the new Wembley Stadium, in 2007?
Of what is doraphobia the fear?
Which country administers the Queen Charlotte Islands?
How many digits has a bear on each foot?
In which group of UK islands would one find Tresco and St Mary's?
Which country was called Dania by the Romans?
Which book of the Bible has more chapters: Esther or Ruth?
What is the average gestation period of a camel: 28 weeks or 58 weeks?
Which narcotic was removed from Coca Cola's formula in 1905?
Which rock star's leather trousers were sold for £28,000 at Sotheby's in 1996?
Who starred as the athlete fighting for his free will in the 1975 film Rollerball?
What sort of animal was the star of the 1995 Babe?
In which country is a 'grosz' a monetary unit?
Which country in Africa is immediately west of Western Zambia?
In the US, what is a 'flack'?
Where was William Rufus killed by an arrow in 1100?
What is the English equivalent of a 'dome fastener'?
What is the second planet from the sun?
Of which Caribbean country is Port-au-Prince the capital?
What name is given to the wind pattern that brings heavy rain to south Asia from April to September?
In which US state is the volcano Mount St Helen's?
What is fermented to make the Japanese drink known as sake?
By what name was Russian Tsar Peter I known?
Which breed of tail-less short-haired cat was originally bred on the Isle of Man?
Which European country was ruled by Antonio de Oliveira Salazar from 1932 to 1968?
Which region of the USA comprises the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut?
Which five-line form of comic verse was popularised by Edward Lear in the 19th century?
What did Winston Churchill refer to as "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma"?
Of what is the horn of a rhinoceros made?
In which ocean are the Midway Islands?
Developed in England from war-horses, what is the largest breed of horse?
Native to Europe, what is a medlar?
On which Mediterranean island is Palermo?
Mount Logan is the highest peak in which country?
Which country in South America was originally inhabited by the Guarani Indians?
What is a score of two strokes less than par for a hole in golf called?
What name is given to the study of the flight dynamics of projectiles?
Which great ape is found solely in Borneo and Sumatra?
Who wrote the novels Lucky Jim and The Old Devils?
Who plays the female lead in the 1999 film Notting Hill?
With which meat is apple sauce usually served?
Which famous pupil of Greyfriars School featured in stories by Frank Richards?
What is the name given to the poison secreted by snakes and scorpions?
In New Zealand, what is a kumera?
What is the capital of Zambia?
Which district of Paris is famous for its street artists and the basilica of Sacré Coeur?
Which British liner was sunk by a German submarine on 7 May 1915?
Of which group of peoples was Arnakuagsak the goddess responsible for ensuring hunters were able to catch enough food and that people remained healthy and strong?
By what initials was the Committee of State Security Secret Police of the Soviet Union known?
Which religious leader issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie because of his book Satanic Verses?
Which of the Apollo space missions made the first manned lunar landing?
Which important vitamin is also called ascorbic acid?
By what name is an elk known in North America?
Which metallic element has the symbol Rh?
Which legendary Trojan leader is the hero of Virgil's most famous work?
What was the surname of the British royal family until it was changed to Windsor in 1917?
What name is given to an industry in which the market is supplied by only one supplier?
What sort of creature is a prairie dog?
In which US state is Dodge City?
How many legs has a lobster?
In which country is the city of Eindhoven?
In which year were the Winter Olympics held in Grenoble, France?
What name is given to the fatty substance released by sebaceous glands?
Which star of the film Billy Elliot won the Best Actor award at the 2001 BAFTAs?
How many feet are there in one yard?
Which winter sport event combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting?
Who was the first athlete to win two Olympic marathons?
What kind of books does the specialist publisher Baedeker produce?
What name is given to the indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand?
What name is given to the leader of congregational prayer in a mosque?
Invented by Leo Baekeland, what was the first plastic?
Which island in San Francisco Bay was the site of a notorious maximum security prison?
What was Antonio Stradivari famous for manufacturing?
Which is the largest island in the Canadian Arctic?
What name is given to an abnormally low concentration of sugar in the blood?
What name is given to rodents of the family sciuridae?
What name is given to the hereditary condition in which blood does not clot properly?
At which sport did Iain Percy win a gold medal at the 2000 Olympics?
Which shipping forecast area lies immediately east of Forties?
Which 1953 film starring Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell featured the song Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend?
Which former US president wrote the 1985 book No More Vietnams?
What is the name by which members of the Unification Church are more commonly known?
What is the average gestation period (in days) of a horse?
Which Chinese province was invaded by Japan in 1931 and not relinquished until 1945?
In which religion is the Beth Din the court of judgment?
Which letter of the Greek alphabet is the equivalent of the letter 'Z'?
Which US state is larger in area: Arizona or Colorado?
What was the name of the driver of the car in which Diana, Princess of Wales, was killed?
Which light gas is used for inflating airships and balloons?
In which year did Elizabeth II become Queen?
What name is given to an area of desert where water is available?
What is the capital of The Netherlands?
Which Shakespeare play features the character Shylock?
Which radioactive metallic element has the symbol Th?
Which British naturalist, writer and zoo curator penned My Family and Other Animals?
Which is the world's largest inland sea?
What name is given to the rounded underground base of the stem of a daffodil, tulip or onion?
What name is given to sweetened alcoholic drinks such as Benedictine, Chartreuse and Curaçao?
How many horns had the dinosaur triceratops?
In which English county is Bury St Edmunds?
Which German composer is best known for the opera Hansel and Gretel?
In which year was the Peasants' Revolt?
Which French philosopher coined the term 'sociology'?
Which Merseyside port is linked to Liverpool by road and rail tunnels?
Which chronic eye infection is the world's most common cause of blindness?
What colour is the variety of beryl known as emerald?
Which British painter was famous for his industrial scenes dotted with matchstick figures?
What was the strange crime of German computer technician Armin Meiwes, who was brought to trial in 2003?
Which organization was replaced by the United Nations in 1945?
Which organization was initially formed by Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela in 1960?
Which planet comes first in Gustav Holst's The Planets Suite?
Following the end of World War II, until which year did the US occupy Japan?
What is the main religion of Japan?
Cochin, Welsummer and Light Sussex are all breeds of which animal?
Which capital city, a one-time Olympics venue, stands at over 2,500 metres above sea level and has a museum dedicated to Leon Trotsky?
Which city started out as Gastown and is now the largest city in British Columbia?
Which god of love is the Roman counterpart of Eros?
Ethan Hawke played the title role in a 2000 film version of which Shakespeare play?
What is the capital of Senegal?
What sort of weather phenomenon is a khamsin?
To which organ of the body does the adjective 'hepatic' relate?
Which poet and dramatist wrote The Waste Land and The Cocktail Party?
Which alloy of copper and nickel is used for coins?
In which country is Elvis Presley's character stationed in the 1960 film GI Blues?
Of which constellation is Deneb the brightest star?
What is the minimum number of points needed to win a tie-break in tennis?
Which expression of hostility towards Britain took place in Boston in 1773?
Who was Tom Cruise's second wife?
Which nocturnal bird of prey has (among others) snowy and tawny varieties?
Which English romantic poet wrote Endymion?
Scurvy is caused by a deficiency of which vitamin?
What was the surname of the French brothers who pioneered motion pictures in the late 19th century?
Which bird with a distinctive call lays its eggs in the nests of other birds?
The Golden Gate Bridge is a feature in which US city?
Of which Canadian province is Regina the capital?
What sort of creature is a dace?
Which Canadian actor is the father of Kiefer Sutherland?
Which continent comprises the land around the South Pole?
What name is given to a stoat in its white winter coat?
Which Norwegian explorer beat Scott's expedition to the South Pole in 1911?
Who wrote the detective novels Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile?
What name is given to a shrub or tree trained to grow flat against a wall or a trellis?
Which actor starred in the films All the President's Men and Out of Africa?
What was the nationality of author Laurens van der Post?
Who wrote the autobiographical work Goodbye to All That?
Which Bavarian town is famous for its Passion Play which is performed every ten years?
What was the name of the boy who befriended ET in the film of that name?
Of what is Roquefort a type?
Who was president of the USA from 1963 to 1969?
The song White Christmas comes from which film?
What is the capital of Paraguay?
What is the chemical symbol for gold?
Which US film composer won Oscars for his work on Breakfast at Tiffany's and Victor/Victoria?
Which actor said "I have played three presidents, three saints and two geniuses: if that doesn't create an ego problem, nothing does"?
What nationality was the explorer Mungo Park?
What is a clavicord?
In which decisive naval battle did Octavian defeat Mark Antony in 31BC?
Of which US state is Madison the capital?
What is Paul McCartney's real first name?
Which German physicist formulated the quantum theory?
What number is between five and one on a dartboard?
In Greek legend, by which part of his body was Achilles held when he was dipped in the River Styx?
Which musical term literally means 'beautiful singing' in Italian?
Who wrote the music for the hymn Onward Christian Soldiers?
Which bird of the crow family has the Latin name pica pica?
To which family of plants does cyclamen belong?
Which section of the Mediterranean Sea contains the Cyclades and Dodecanese Islands?
What name is given to the rate of upward change of the velocity of a moving body?
Which English crime writer created Lord Peter Wimsey?
What was the ancient name for the Dardanelles, the straits separating European and Asian Turkey?
In Greek mythology, which daughter of Demeter was carried off by Hades, who made her queen of the underworld?
Who wrote the novel The Cruel Sea, based on his own experiences in World War II?
Which US president was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth?
Which entrepreneur founded the Virgin Record Company in 1969?
What name is given to a precipitation that has absorbed sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from the atmosphere?
What sort of creature is a hairstreak?
Zeeland, Fyn, Lolland, Falster and Bornholm are the principals islands of which country?
Which country is the most popular destination for foreign tourists?
Which French oceanographer commanded the research vessel Calypso?
Which city is the capital of the Tuscany region of Italy?
Immortalized by the rhyme, the bridge of Avignon in France crosses which river?
Which baseball player featured in the lyrics of Simon and Garfunkel's Mrs Robinson?
The Flathead Lake Monster is said to exist in which US state?
Who wrote Arms and the Man and Man and Superman?
Into which superhero did Jim McGuire of the Daily World Newspaper turn after falling into a tankful of chemicals?
In which Canadian province is Algonquin Provincial Park?
Which English artist is best known for A Rake's Progress?
What is the northernmost point of the British Isles?
Which former silent film star is best known for her portrayal of Norma Desmond in the 1950 film Sunset Boulevard?
How many squares has a chessboard?
Which feature of chronic alcoholism is known as the DTs?
Which horror film actor was born William Henry Pratt?
Who directed the films To Have and Have Not, The Big Sleep and Rio Bravo?
What colour is the ball worth three points in snooker?
For which soccer club did Ronaldo leave Barcelona?
Which famous story of the French Foreign Legion was written by P C Wren?
What is the most powerful piece in a game of chess?
Which bluish-white metallic element has the symbol Zn?
In which country did General Zia ul-Haq lead a military coup in 1977?
What name is given to blood vessels which carry oxygen-depleted blood to the heart?
Who wrote The Day of the Triffids?
The Vedas are the basic scriptures of which religion?
Which bridge across the River Thames has a central portion which lifts to enable ships to pass through it into the Pool of London?
What does the abbreviation CIA stand for?
What do the initials YMCA stand for?
Which singing artist fronted The Commodores for 12 years before going solo in 1982?
At which racecourse is the English Grand National run?
The port of Salto is the second largest city of which South American country?
Which Finn was the 1998 Australian Formula 1 Grand Prix winner?
In which US state is the Kilauea volcano?
Of which country is Funafuti the capital?
In which African country are the Karuru and Gura waterfalls?
Which animal represents the year 2008 in the Chinese calendar?
On which Mediterranean island is the author Robert Graves buried?
In which opera by Rimsky Korsakov does King Dodon appear?
Which fictional diarist was created by Helen Fielding?
What is the largest lake in Europe?
Which South African province was formerly known as Natal?
Which Nazi politician led the SS from 1929 and the Gestapo from 1936?
What were Marilyn Monroe's real first names?
Which musical has won the most Oscars?
Who was the husband of Helen of Troy?
Of which US state is Bismarck the capital?
Which US actor starred in Cape Fear, Thunder Road and The Winds of War?
In which country did reggae music originate?
Which Canadian jazz diva married English musician Elvis Costello in 2003?
Which Apollo space mission was manned by Charles Conrad, Alan Bean and Richard Gordon?
The film Picnic at Hanging Rock begins on which day, normally associated with love?
What word comes from the Persian for a public market district of a town?
Which comet is shown on the Bayeux Tapestry?
What name is given to a musical composition for six instruments?
Which Spanish painter was noted for his Blue Period in the early 20th century?
Which actor played eight roles in the 2000 film sequel Nutty Professor II: the Klumps?
Which US actress was the elder sister of Joan Fontaine?
What nickname was given to the M9A1 shoulder-held rocket launcher of World War II?
Which is Australia's largest city by population?
A rickshaw would typically be used as a form of transport in parts of which continent?
Who wrote the whodunnit novel The Murder of Roger Ackroyd?
What was the first name of Sigourney Weaver's character Ripley in the Alien films?
How many minutes are there in one day?
Which US city is nicknamed 'The Windy City'?
What is the twelfth sign of the zodiac?
What sort of animal is Snowball in George Orwell's Animal Farm?
Take My Breath Away was the 1986 Oscar-winning song from which film?
What was the name of the car in the film The Lovebug?
If you are performing 'oscitancy', what are you doing?
What was the title of Kylie Minogue's first UK No 1 single?
Which veteran rock group released an album in 1966 entitled Don't Stop?
Which Canadian group recorded the 2000 album Maroon?
Approximately how many islands constitute the Cyclades group in the Aegean Sea: is it 220, 320 or 420?
In US politics, who carries the nickname 'the Veep'?
In which European country is the town of Gouda?
What is an 'elf-cup'?
Which English monarch was crowned in 1558?
What is a 'caparison'?
In which sport is the term 'hookcheck' often used?
Cardinal Richelieu was the chief minister of which French monarch?
What sort of creatures transmit Lyme disease?
What nationality is swimmer Pieter van den Hoogenband?
In which city is the US governing body of basketball, the NBA, based?
Who wrote the stage play Cat on a Hot Tin Roof?
What name is given to the strap which runs between the reins and the girth of a horse and prevents it from carrying its head too high?
Which river flows through the Sea of Galilee?
Gatun Lake is part of which canal?
In which ocean are the volcanic D'Entrecasteaux Islands?
Which UK government securities, introduced in 1956, entitle the holders to participate in a prize draw?
What name is given to the compulsory enlistment of recruits for military service?
Which group had a hit with Bitter Sweet Symphony in 1997?
What is the name of the large salty lake which lies between Israel and Jordan?
Who was the fourth wife of Henry VIII?
Which stringed instrument is featured in Rodrigo's Concierto de Aranjuez?
Which characters of Eastern European folklore are repelled by crucifixes, garlic and the light of day?
What is the classic literary language of the Hindu scriptures?
Which Russian-born woman was prime minister of Israel from 1969 to 1974?
What wind-powered device was first built in Persia around 500AD?
In 1976, Israeli troops stormed a hijacked plane at which Ugandan airport?
Which French term meaning 'odds and ends' is used in English for miscellaneous small objects, ornaments, trinkets, etc?
Name the loose-fitting garment consisting of a piece of cloth, draped around the body and worn by the citizens of ancient Rome?
What kind of school literally means 'children's garden' in German?
How is 19 written in Roman numerals?
What type of creatures are the eastern diamondback, and fer de lance?
One of the apostles, he was a tax collector until he became a follower of Jesus; he is the patron saint of accountants, banks and customs officers – can you name him?
George Lazenby played James Bond only once – in which film?
Who wrote the opera Tosca?
Which city was the first capital of the kingdom of Italy, until 1865?
Which Canadian comic starred in The Mask and Liar Liar?
Which Roman slave is associated with a lion?
Which physician coined the word 'vaccination'?
What is the world's largest living mammal?
What is the world's largest species of antelope?
In which city was the first underground railway line, opened in 1863?
What was the name of the one-eyed, man-eating giants in Greek mythology?
Which Christian festival commemorates the coming of the Magi?
Which Indonesian volcano erupted in 1883, killing over 36,000 people and creating the loudest explosions in recorded history?
Which aircraft safety system was invented by James Martin?
Which beloved and accomplished Canadian author wrote The Stone Angel and Dance on the Earth?
Who followed William Taft as US president?
Which actor was born Archibald Alexander Leach?
Which of these birds (if any) can fly: kookaburra, ostrich, kiwi, cassowary?
What was the name of the daughter of Samantha and Darrin in Bewitched?
Which D H Lawrence novel concerns several generations of the Brangwen family?
Aconcagua is the highest peak in which mountain chain?
Of what is cyberphobia the irrational fear?
The adjective 'vulpine' relates to which family of animals?
Which former Chilean dictator was arrested in London in 1998?
Which Shakespeare play features the characters Mercutio and Tybalt?
Which Dutch artist painted The Anatomy Lesson of Doctor Tulp and The Night Watch?
In which US state is the city of San Diego?
Which New Testament apostle was martyred on an X-shaped cross?
What name is given to the stiffening of a body after death?
Who was the Greek goddess of war and wisdom?
Which island country was formerly known as the Malagasy Republic?
What is the official language of the principality of Liechtenstein?
Who was married to actress Ali McGraw from 1973 to 1978?
Kym Marsh was the first member to leave which manufactured pop group?
Who wrote the books which were adapted for the TV series Jeeves and Wooster?
Who created the character Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn?
How many white stars are on the national flag of the USA?
In the film The Hunt for Red October, in which ocean does the action take place?
A howdah is a seat used for riding on the back of which animal?
What is another term for lockjaw?
What is the name of the family featured in the John Ford film The Grapes of Wrath?
What nationality was the composer Edward Elgar?
Which Australian medical service began in Cloncurry in Queensland in 1928?
Which is the nearest star to Earth?
What is the name of the famous ghost ship seen in bad weather off the Cape of Good Hope?
Which British-born South African financier had an African country named after him?
In which Scottish town was the Royal and Ancient Golf Club founded in 1754?
What is the name for the flame-like electrical discharge that sometimes occurs above ship's masts in thundery weather?
Of which Canadian province is St John's the capital?
What is the medical name for the tube (also called the gullet) by which food travels from the mouth to the stomach?
Which French novelist and aviator wrote The Little Prince?
Which city in Florida is closest to the Walt Disney World complex?
In which European city are the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts and the Kremlin?
In which century did British biologist Thomas Henry Huxley live?
Which boy band recorded the 2001 single Pop?
What unit of distance used in astronomy is equal to 0.3066 of a parsec?
Which 1979 record album by Michael Jackson spent over 170 weeks in the UK album chart?
The St John River, which forms part of the international boundary between the US and Canada, rises in which state?
Which Canada-born revue singer's films included 1967's Thoroughly Modern Millie?
Who was the wife of Cronus and mother of Zeus in Greek mythology?
What was the nickname of King Richard I of England?
Which is the chief island of the Society Islands in French Polynesia?
Mount Cook is the highest mountain of which nation in the South Pacific?
What name is given to an agent which causes cancer?
What sort of creature is a margay?
Which US silversmith was famous for his night ride to warn the people of Massachusetts of the approach of British troops?
Which item of clothing is named after the officer who led the Charge of the Light Brigade in the Crimean War?
Of which country is Margrethe II the reigning queen?
Which prophetic book is the last in the New Testament?
Which French mime artiste was best known for his white-faced character Bip?
Which reed-like plant was used by the ancient Egyptians to make paper?
If you suffer from apnoea, what are you unable to do?
The Italian dessert 'tiramisu' derives its name from which phrase?
In horticulture, what does the word 'ananthous' mean?
Which Phrygian goddess of nature was often called 'the mother of the gods'?
What nationality is cyclist Paolo Bettini?
In aeronautics, which organization is represented by the initials ESA?
In which year did John Logie Baird first transmit pictures between London and Glasgow using telephone lines?
The large moon Miranda is a satellite of which planet of the solar system?
Symbolic, connectionist and evolutionary are the three types of what?
Which US stand-up comedian and film actor appeared as a conman in the 1997 film The Spanish Prisoner?
What are the three main languages of Switzerland?
Where in Europe are the only wild apes to be found?
Which country is the world's largest producer of coffee?
Who wrote On the Beach and A Town Like Alice?
Who created the detective Hercule Poirot?
How many pairs of ribs are in the human body?
In which country does the River Danube rise?
The Levant is a general name given to the eastern shores of which sea?
Which country is nicknamed 'the cockpit of Europe', because of the number of battles fought on its soil throughout history?
What is the capital of Libya?
Which Russian leader was first associated with the policies of Glasnost and Perestroika?
Which former American football star was acquitted of murder in October 1995?
What name is given to the tiles used in a mosaic?
Which country hosted the Football World Cup in 1990?
What is the name given to the common foot infection caused by a fungus?
Which former British coin was worth a quarter of an old (pre-decimal) penny?
From which track event was Ben Johnson disqualified after winning at the 1998 Olympics?
In which year did Salt Lake City, USA, hold the Winter Olympics?
Which English seaside resort became a city in the year 2000?
Which Welsh artist painted portraits of George Bernard Shaw, Dylan Thomas and James Joyce?
What was the Roman name for London?
Which Christmas carol concerns the plants ilex aquifolium and hedera helix?
By what name was Yugoslav President Josip Broz known?
On which of the Iles de Salut of French Guiana was Alfred Dreyfuss imprisoned?
What sort of creature is a devil's coach-horse?
Which non-metallic element has the symbol I?
What was the popular name for Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative?
Of which small Mediterranean island country is Valletta the capital?
In which year did the Titanic sink on its maiden voyage?
In Greek mythology, by what name were the giant children of Uranus and Gaea known?
Of which former Soviet republic is Nagorna-Karabakh an autonomous region?
What was the title of the 1977 Disney animation featuring two heroic mice?
Which US actor starred in the films East of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause?
In Greek mythology, who was the son of Daedalus, who plunged to his death when he flew too close to the sun?
The Painted Desert lies in which US state?
Which large, intelligent black and white predator is a member of the dolphin family?
Who was the second wife of King Henry VIII of England?
In Freudian psychology, what name is given to the part of the unconscious mind governed by instinctive forces?
What nationality was the philosopher Soren Kierkegaard?
What sort of creature is a bongo?
The 1956 film Reach for the Sky is based on whose life story?
Who voiced Stinky Pete in the film Toy Story 2?
How many times did Bobby Jones win the US Amateur Championship in golf?
In which sport is the Conn Smythe Trophy awarded?
Which female singer recorded the 2001 album Read My Lips?
Which singer recorded the 2000 album Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)?
Which was the first element to be created artificially?
In which European capital city is the Institut Pasteur based?
Which condition does the acronym AIDS stand for?
In computing, what does ISDN stand for?
The German port of Hamburg lies near the mouth of which major European river?
In Arctic regions, what kind of features are sastrugi?
In the Americas, what is a mesa?
Which city was the first in the world to have a population of more than one million?
The Taj Mahal is located near to which Indian city?
St Michael's Mount lies off the coast of which English county?
To where would you have to travel in order to stand by the Marsh of Decay?
What is the English name for the Bayern region of Germany?
In Lord of the Rings, what was the name of Gandalf's white horse?
Which famous Nazi-hunter died in Vienna in 2005, aged 96?
Who wrote Bleak House?
Which actor's real name was Marion Michael Morrison?
What would a costermonger sell?
Which actress played the title role in the film adaptation of Bridget Jones's Diary?
'George' is an informal name for which feature of an aircraft?
Who wrote The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner?
How is Sarah Michelle Gellar better known to millions?
Ganymede is a satellite of which planet?
What nationality was the composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart?
For which element is Co the chemical symbol?
The Yucatan Channel lies between Cuba and which country in Central America?
Which address in London is famous for being the fictional home of Sherlock Holmes?
King Richard III of England was killed at which battle that ended the War of the Roses?
Which Russian author's books include The Idiot and The Devils?
Which part of the body is affected by lumbago?
Which US white supremacist organization is identified by the letters KKK?
Who wrote The Old Curiosity Shop?
What was the name for a Roman marketplace that was the civic centre of a town?
Which Scottish scientist and inventor patented the telephone in 1876?
Which hexagonal accordion-like musical instrument was invented by Sir Charles Wheatstone?
What does a 'cryometer' measure?
Which plant is also known as Monk's Hood?
Which former Polish shipyard electrician was awarded the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize?
With which British World War II fighter plane is Reginald Mitchell especially associated?
Which British film director made Psycho and The Birds?
Who was the king's jester in Shakespeare's Hamlet?
Which Greek physician gave his name to an oath taken by medical students?
In which country is the city of Tijuana?
Who played the title role in the film Meet Joe Black?
Which Swiss psychiatrist originated the concept of introvert and extrovert personalities?
What is the Spanish word for bull?
What is the capital of the Philippines?
According to cliché, what do birds of a feather do?
What element has symbol Pb?
Who was John Lennon's second wife?
The West Bank is one Palestinian territory. What is the other one?
In what language was Catholic mass always delivered, until the 1960s?
What country built the Maginot Line to resist invasion from its eastern neighbor?
Who are the best-selling Swedish band of all time?
What city is bordered by the Golden Horn, the Bosphorus, and the Sea of Marmara?
What is the term for the smallest animal in a litter?
On what island would you find the city of Honolulu?
Two elements of the periodic table start with Z. Name either.
What is the nearest city to New York City which has a population over 10 million?
What could Cassandra, Jeremiah, and Paul the Octopus see that most people can not?
Who starred as James Bond immediately before Daniel Craig?
What former patent clerk was named Time Magazine's "Person of the Century" in 1999?
What is the word for a male goose?
Which country has won the most men's football World Cups?
What is Islam's holiest city?
Who resigned as Apple CEO in 2011?
What "Wild World" singer changed his name to Yusuf Islam in 1977?
Who wrote the "Moonlight Sonata"?
What did Little Miss Muffet eat while sitting on a tuffet?
Who was the king of the Roman gods?
Among all the cities in the world with a metro population over 1 million people, which one is last alphabetically?
What type of animal has a head, thorax, and abdomen?
What did Abebe Bikila wear on his feet when winning the marathon at the 1960 Summer Olympics?
What African country had an outbreak of piracy in the early 21st century?
Who served as Prime Minister of the U.K. from 1937–1940?
What is the mineral pyrite commonly known as?
What country borders San Marino?
What two-digit number has the most syllables when spoken?
Who was rated the #1 guitarist of all time by Rolling Stone magazine?
What is the English translation of the German word "Wurst"?
What is "good" when it's HDL and "bad" when it's LDL?
What did Moses bring with him when he climbed down from Mt. Sinai?
What is the tallest mountain in Africa?
What city celebrates the original Oktoberfest?
What is the largest species of animal?
What 1972 movie, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, won the Oscar for Best Picture?
What Asian country passed Brazil around 2017 to become the world's fifth most populous?
What is the Southern Hemisphere's equivalent to the Tropic of Cancer?
What "secret" society has counted fourteen U.S. Presidents among its members?
In what building is Queen Elizabeth I buried?
Who was the second person to walk on the Moon?
What shape are SpongeBob's pants?
What city were the Beatles from?
What conquistador conquered the Aztecs?
Sushi often comes wrapped in nori. What is nori a type of?
Who are the parents of Blue Ivy, Rumi, and Sir?
What is the capital of Saudi Arabia?
What city is still commonly known by its former name, Saigon?
Who crossed the Rubicon?
Who was ruled to be "infallible" at the First Vatican Council of 1869–70?
In the Old Testament, which two cities were destroyed by fire and brimstone as punishment for their wickedness?
Who recorded the song "Poker Face"?
What is the first book of the Bible?
What actor lent his basso profondo voice to Mufasa and Darth Vader?
What Roman numeral is equal to 2159?
What prison was stormed on July 14th, 1789?
Who resigned as pope in 2013?
Who fought Ivan Drago and Clubber Lang?
What country's unofficial national anthem is "Waltzing Matilda"?
What do we call the mineral Beryl when its green?
In what country would you find the city of Haarlem?
Who was the first Roman emperor?
Whose net worth declined by a record $29 billion in a single day due to a decline in the stock of Meta Systems in 2022?
Who is Steffi Graf's husband?
How many ships did Helen's face launch?
What do pitcher plants eat?
British people called them courgettes. What do Americans call them?
Who is the lead singer of The Rolling Stones?
What South American country has won more major international beauty pageants than any other countries besides the U.S.?
What major Japanese city was spared bombing damage during WWII because of its cultural value?
What city hosted the first Modern Olympics in 1896?
Throughout most of the Harry Potter books, who was the headmaster at Hogwarts?
If you are born on August 1st, what is your sign?
What was Mumbai formerly called?
Not including external territories, what is the world's southernmost country?
In the original Super Mario Brothers, who is Mario's enemy?
What international song contest was won by ABBA and Celine Dion?
What's another name for D sharp?
Who wrote "Les Misérables"?
What world leader was born as Jorge Mario Bergoglio in 1936 in Buenos Aires?
What landmark is also known as Ayers Rock?
Which province lies on British Columbia's eastern border?
What major city has initials HCMC?
Besides the sun, which star appears brightest from Earth?
If something is "prêt-à-porter" then what can you do with it right away?
Many cities in Germany have a U-Bahn. What is a U-Bahn?
What are the two "observer states" of the UN that are not full members?
What does a mixologist make?
In what sport was Nadia Comaneci "perfect"?
What large desert can be found in China and Mongolia?
What type of reference book lists synonyms?
It's the third largest city in South Africa, and its name rhymes with a type of headwear commonly worn in India. What is it?
Which musical group is will.i.am a member of?
Who starred as Bella Swan in the movie "Twilight"?
In what country was Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann hiding when Mossad agents captured him in 1960?
Which two rivers form the boundaries of Mesopotamia?
What award is given to the World Cup's leading goal scorer?
According to the Bible, Jesus was born in Bethlehem. But what city did he grow up in?
Who was Henry VIII's second wife?
What singer is known as "The Godfather of Soul"?
In what activity can someone be "en pointe", which means standing on the very tips of their toes?
What does "domo arigato" mean?
What sweetener is usually used in Diet Coke?
What major language sounds very similar to Urdu, but is written with a different script?
What country was Nefertiti the queen of?
In what country did fortune cookies originate?
What power-up makes Mario temporarily invincible?
What, primarily, do giant pandas eat?
What country borders Switzerland to the west?
What article of clothing is famously worn by Dracula and Superman?
What movie took place on the moon of the planet Pandora?
What comet passes near Earth every 76 years?
What country was formerly known as Ceylon?
What is necrotizing fasciitis commonly known as?
What comes between milli and nano?
From what fish's eggs does caviar traditionally come from?
What plant is used to make tequila?
What tongue-tied Bible character relied on his brother Aaron to do his public speaking?
What is the name of the three-headed dog that guards Hades?
What word means either "a business tycoon" or "a bump on a skiing course"?
What is a chorophobe afraid of?
What actress starred as Hermione Granger?
What country is mostly located in Anatolia?
What river flows through Paris?
Who is Posh Spice's husband?
When Jack fell down and broke his crown, who came tumbling after?
What Starbucks size, larger than a grande, is also the Italian word for "twenty"?
What is Superman's achilles heel?
What is Eminem's real name?
What toxic element were hatters once exposed to - causing some to become "mad"?
What was the name of Italy's currency prior to the Euro?
What is 5 factorial?
What is the only Olympic sport where the gender of the participant is not considered, and men and women can directly compete against each other?
What famous document was King John forced to agree to 1215?
Other than Mexico and Canada, what country's territory lies closest to the United States?
The star Betelgeuse is pronounced like what two English words?
What does the Sandman bring to children?
If you follow the Yellow Brick Road, where do you end up?
What is the English translation of the Latin word "Rex"?
What is the biggest stadium in the United Kingdom?
In the U.S., what profession is practiced by a person who ends their name with "esquire"?
What famous Paris cabaret theater has a name that means "Red Mill"?
What body part can be affected by cataracts?
What island do lemurs come from?
Who founded Facebook?
When Jack fell down, what did he break?
What singer is the subject of the movie "Walk the Line"?
What was the Soviet equivalent of the CIA?
What is the largest island in the Caribbean Sea?
Who was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, and the first person of any gender to win two?
What is the largest species of lizard?
What did the Normans conquer in 1066?
What is the second book of Bible?
What, according to a supposed African proverb, does it take a village to do?
What instrument did Ravi Shankar play?
What is the Japanese word for freshwater eel?
Who killed Achilles?
In what country would you be most likely to find a polder?
What country, along with the US, UK, Canada, and Australia is part of the "Five Eyes" intelligence community?
Who is He-Man's nemesis?
What city-state did Hannibal fight for?
In what language is the motto of the English monarch written?
What country does espresso come from originally?
What is the modern birthstone for the month of July?
What element has the symbol Sn?
What is the heaviest internal human organ?
By weight and value, what is the most commonly grown crop in the United States?
What does the F in UFO stand for?
What comes in Pillbox, Panama, and Fez varieties?
What book is about an English aristocrat named Viscount Greystoke who is raised by apes?
What country, despite having a population of just 5.5 million, has won more Winter Olympics medals than any other?
What ancient city-state was ruled by King Leonidas?
Whose wife was turned into a pillar of salt?
What is the main ingredient in hummus?
In what city do the movies "Robocop" and "Gran Torino" take place?
What country's capital is Ulaanbaatar?
What term refers to a luxurious apartment on the top floor of a tall building?
Where does a Muscovite live?
What molecule, formula C12H22O11, is commonly used as table sugar?
What is the first name of actresses McAdams and Weisz?
Who painted a fresco of Jesus's Last Supper around 1495 AD?
What is the most populous city in South Africa?
What is a baby kangaroo called?
What is the chemical symbol for lead?
Where, according to tradition, did the Mayflower land in the year 1620?
What is another name for Uluru?
Who wrote the story "A Christmas Carol"?
Which automaker has a name which means "people's car"?
What is the traditional Japanese art of folding paper?
What type of animal was Bambi's friend Flower?
What is the name of Adele's first album?
Who is the firstborn son of British royals William and Kate?
What is the name of the flag of the United Kingdom?
What city is the seat of the Netherlands' government?
What is the smallest country in the world, either by area or population?
What is the oldest university in England?
Which city has more passengers fly through its six international airports than any other city in the world?
Who assassinated Abraham Lincoln?
What element of the periodic table are diamonds made of?
What tropical island chain was famously visited by Charles Darwin?
Who portrays the character Mr. Bean?
Whose twelve labors included slaying a hydra and cleaning stables?
What city's tallest building is known as the "Shard"?
How do you say "Merry Christmas" in Spanish?
What animal represents the Republican Party of the United States?
What is the national anthem of the U.K.?
In what city can you find the Petronas Towers?
What language was invented in 1887 and has over 100,000 fluent speakers?
What building is located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue?
Who wrote "Das Kapital"?
Towards what city do Muslims face when they pray?
What is the the only U.S. state whose name has only one syllable?
What is the colloquial name for a myocardial infarction?
What country used the Drachma as its currency before switching to the Euro in 2001?
Who recorded the song "Achy Breaky Heart" in 1991?
What kind of fish was Nemo from the movie "Finding Nemo"?
What city was the site of the John F. Kennedy assassination?
What country was Osama bin Laden hiding in when he was killed by U.S. troops in 2011?
What city-state did Rome fight against during the Punic Wars?
What weapon is used in Tchaikovsky's "1812 Overture"?
What is the only country in the world whose name in English begins with the letter O?
What make of car did James Bond drive in the movie "Goldfinger"?
What happens in chess when a player is not in check but also can't make a legal move?
Who is the only British man to win a singles title at Wimbledon since 1936?
What is the biggest city in central Australia?
What did Mary Poppins use to fly?
What is ascorbic acid commonly known as?
What breed of dog did Queen Elizabeth II own several of?
What single word refers to a period of time lasting 14 days?
Who is Bolivia named after?
What Italian dessert literally means "pick me up"?
What is the most populous island in the United States?
In what mountain range would you find the Matterhorn?
Whose ear did Mike Tyson bite?
In "The Lion King", what type of animal is Timon?
What country did Iraq invade in 1990?
What is Deoxyribonucleic Acid better know as?
On which city did the Enola Gay drop "Little Boy"?
What is the name of the phenomenon where hostages develop positive feelings for their captors?
What constellation appears on the flags of Australia and New Zealand?
What unit of measurement is used to measure speed on a boat?
What is either the longest river in Italy or the main character in "Kung-Fu Panda"?
What is a necrophobe afraid of?
Who was famously known as "Coeur de Lion"?
What dog breed is half labrador retriever, half poodle?
What type of ice cream has stripes of vanilla, strawberry, and chocolate?
What salty sea does the River Jordan flow into?
If B is Bravo, and F is Foxtrot, what is C?
Who recorded the song "Love Me Tender"?
What movie featured the song "Under the Sea"?
Who was assassinated at Ford's Theatre?
What country do Legos come from?
What periodic table element is represented by the letter K?
What country did Ingólfr Arnarson become the first person to settle in the year 874?
On what European island would you find the Giant's Causeway?
What disease is also known as "consumption"?
What is the most commonly-spoken language that uses the Cyrillic alphabet?
What religion is associated with wearing dreadlocks?
What U.S. territory lies about 1,600 miles south of Japan?
What modern garment was the cravat a predecessor of?
What is the only country in Central America that has English as its official language?
What German military tactic means "lightning war"?
What vestigial organ caused the death of Harry Houdini?
What word, starting with R, means "bird of prey"?
What is another name for ALS disease – in honor of the baseball player who died of it in 1941?
What type of animal is a macaque?
What country is commonly, but inaccurately, known as Holland?
What does the S stand for in NASA?
What is the largest artery in the human body?
What class of animal includes frogs, newts, and salamanders?
What country's judicial capital is Bloemfontein?
What is the name for the longest side of a right triangle?
What is the term for the score 40-40 in a game of tennis?
What movie character befriended a shrimp fisherman named Bubba?
What red spice, starting with the letter P, is a key ingredient in goulash?
What word, invented by Sir Thomas More, means "an imagined place where everything is perfect"?
What, according to Karl Marx, is the opiate of the masses?
Who owns a motel in the movie "Psycho?"
What 20th century leader was known as "Il Duce"?
Who is the nemesis of Professor Moriarty?
What is the biggest city in Manitoba?
In what song does Michael Jackson sing "the kid is not my son"?
What country has the highest population density?
Whose butler is named Alfred Pennyworth?
What is the captain's name in "Moby Dick"?
What is the only national capital in Europe that starts with the letter K?
What does one say in a theater instead of "good luck"?
Name one of the two Kangaroo characters from Winnie the Pooh.
In what country was the god Osiris worshiped?
What American politician won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change activism?
What is nitrous oxide commonly known as?
Who was Romulus's brother?
What Spanish cocktail is translated as "strained pineapple" in English?
Who wrote just one novel: "Wuthering Heights"?
Who composed the music to "Ode to Joy", the anthem of the EU?
What is another name for the French Open tennis tournament?
Who is the main character in the Legend of Zelda?
Who starred in both "E.T." and "Charlie's Angels"?
What brand of jets are assembled in Toulouse, France?
What does the I in ROYGBIV stand for?
Who won seven Mr. Olympia titles between 1970–1980?
What well-known brand is named after the Greek goddess of victory?
What first name did nearly 25% of British women have in the year 1800?
What is the name of the Islamic month of fasting?
What city does Batman protect?
What was tested at Bikini Atoll in the 1940s and 1950s?
What is the official language of San Marino?
What band has a bassist named Flea?
What is the name of the ship that transported the first English Pilgrims to Massachusetts in 1620?
What type of Christianity is the most common in Russia?
Who was the brother of Zeus and Hades?
Who captured Constantinople in 1453?
Which Australian state is nearest to the Great Barrier Reef?
What does the R stand for in the computing term RAM?
What South American city is overlooked by the Christ the Redeemer statue?
What Formula One legend was paralyzed in a ski accident in 2013?
What type of vehicle is an M1 Abrams?
What is the best-selling Czech automaker?
The Sahara is not the world's largest desert. What is?
What were the last words of Julius Caesar, according to Shakespeare?
Where does an arboreal creature typically live?
Who proposed the law that things in motion tend to stay in motion?
What is the name of the boy who owns the toys in "Toy Story"?
What legendary king was given a sword by a "watery tart"?
What terrorist organization was historically associated with the Sinn Féin party?
What does the Russian word "babushka" mean?
What island was settled by Erik the Red in the year 985?
What is a common synonym of the word thespian?
What period of world history started on "Black Thursday"?
What city is sinking into the Adriatic Sea at a rate of 2mm every year?
In what event did British athlete Paula Radcliffe once hold the women's world record?
Which country's capital was named after the Duke of Wellington?
What type of cells contain hemoglobin?
Name one of the four countries on the Barbary Coast.
What Leonardo DiCaprio movie tells the "true" story of con man Frank Abagnale Jr.?
In what city can one visit Park Güell to the see the famous Gaudi salamander?
What language is the "lingua franca" of Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda even though very few people speak it as a first language?
What is the Spanish word for father?
Which city's nicknames include "Crossroads of the Pacific" and "The Big Pineapple"?
How many months are there in a decade?
Which U.S. state is named on the label of a Jack Daniels bottle?
On which Jewish holiday did Egypt and Syria attack Israel on 6th October 1973?
What religion was founded by L. Ron Hubbard?
What does the G stand for in the GMT time zone?
Which city's NBA team is known as the "Heat"?
What sportswear company was named after its founder, Adolf Dassler?
What does the white symbolize in the Indian flag?
What winged horse was ridden by the Greek hero Bellerophon?
What is the capital of Sudan?
What name is shared by a terrorist group, a river in England, and an ancient Egyptian Goddess?
On what island would you find the city of Nuuk?
What 10th century Danish king is the namesake of the technology used in wireless headphones?
In what country was paper money invented?
Who directed "Schindler's List"?
What country is home to Kruger National Park?
What are John Dories and Yellow Tang?
What speedy superhero has a red suit with a lightning bolt on it?
What is the most populous city in Switzerland?
What does CV stand for?
Which African city has a name meaning "white house" in Spanish?
What country borders both India and Iran?
What part of the body concentrates and stores bile?
What singer has named her four albums based on the age she was at the time they were recorded?
What province didn't become part of Canada until 1949?
What type of animal is Pumbaa in the film "The Lion King"?
Which Australian state is the furthest south?
What river has a two-letter name and flows through the city of Turin?
What are known to Argentinians as "Las Islas Malvinas"?
What type of mustard is named after a city in France?
What disease is abbreviated TB?
What country does feta cheese come from?
What Belgian city hosted the Summer Olympics in 1920?
Muhammad was born in Mecca. Where did he die?
What 39 year old became, in 2017, the youngest person ever to be elected President of France?
Where would you find the medulla oblongata?
Who wrote the "Goldberg Variations" and the "Brandenburg Concertos"?
What company's mascot is a man who is made of tires?
What real-life person was the subject of the movie "The Theory of Everything"?
What is the only state in New England that doesn't border the ocean?
What was the name of the American plan to rebuild Europe following WWII?
Who was the President of the United States in the year 1999?
What animal's German name, Nacktschnecke, means literally "naked snail"?
What "Mr. Tambourine Man" singer was the first musician ever to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature?
Who is Batman's sidekick?
What sea does the Rhine river empty into?
Which of Santa's reindeer comes first alphabetically?
What is the most spoken language beginning with "K"?
What video game heroine was inspired by Indiana Jones?
Who was the oldest person to sign the U.S. Declaration of Independence?
Which Old Testament book has the shortest name of any book in the Bible?
What was the name of the Russian city of Volgograd between 1925–1961?
What language was "The Communist Manifesto" written in?
By area, what is the largest country in Africa?
Which sea borders Egypt and Saudi Arabia?
What is the nearest country to the island nation of Malta?
What is the lightest noble gas?
Not including continental landmasses, what is the world's largest island?
What country was the D. R. Congo a colony of?
What is the capital of Kenya?
What part of the body is afflicted by hepatitis?
What movie does the word "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" come from?
What kind of "belt" can be found between Mars and Jupiter?
What is the first book of the gospels?
What celebration was outlawed by Puritans in the English Parliament in 1647?
What was the name of the 1773 event where protestors dumped tea into Boston harbor?
What is Karl Benz credited with inventing?
What North African city has the same name as an Oscar-winning movie?
What name is shared by a video game princess and the wife of F. Scott Fitzgerald?
From which country did the U.S. buy the state of Alaska in 1867?
What is the nearest major galaxy to the Milky Way?
The ISS is the third brightest object in the night sky. What does ISS stand for?
Name a country that is an "enclave".
Who is the mascot of Sega?
What are glucose, fructose, and sucrose?
What Venetian explorer traveled to China and met Kublai Khan?
What, according to cliché, is a dish best served cold?
On what part of the body would you be most likely to find an epaulette?
What part of the world is nearly encircled by the Ring of Fire?
The disorder formerly called ADD is now often called ADHD. What does the H stand for?
In which country would you find the city of Mombasa?
What U.S. civil rights activist is said to have "taken a stand by staying seated"?
What is Canada's smallest province by size and population?
It's in Italy and it's the tallest active volcano in Europe. What is it?
Among the top ten countries with the most population, which one has the smallest area?
Who wrote a popular science book called "A Brief History of Time"?
What painting from the early 1500s is thought to feature Italian noblewoman Lisa Gherardini?
What is either a group of owls or a group of legislators?
Cherilyn Sarkisian was born in 1946. What is she better known as today?
Who was the Greek goddess of wisdom?
Which is the smallest of Australia's six states?
For which film did Steven Spielberg win his first Best Director Oscar in 1994?
Whose first novel was "The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club"?
Which European country has a name which ends in K?
To which branch of the Indo-European language family do Welsh, Irish, and Breton belong?
Which country owns Madeira, an island off the northwest coast of Africa?
What is the northernmost city in England, whose people are known as Geordies?
What is the largest country that doesn't share a land border with any other country?
What is something with a pH over seven called?
What is the longest mountain chain on Earth, not counting underwater ranges?
What movie's main character is named Michael J. Dundee?
What do the stars on the U.S. flag represent?
What country's largest ethnic group are known as Magyars?
What term from the Soviet era means "fellow citizen"?
What is Sudan's largest port on the Red Sea?
Who was the first female pilot to fly solo across the Atlantic?
What movie was about a deer whose mother was shot by a hunter?
What is the official language in Liechtenstein?
What animal are the Canary Islands named after?
What tiny island in the Caribbean is the only country named after a woman?
Who led Libya from 1969 until he was shot in 2011?
What number are people afraid of if they suffer from hexakosioihexekontahexaphobia?
What is both a Greek letter and an American airline?
Which country's flag features 27 white stars representing its 27 states?
In what category did Winston Churchill win his Nobel Prize in 1953?
What were Fat Man and Little Boy?
What consists of areas of "gray matter" and "white matter"?
Which former Soviet country has a name starting with E?
In what country is Murphy the most common last name?
What Caribbean island nation has a name meaning "ancient and bearded"?
What building in Turkey was once a church, then a mosque, then a museum, and now a mosque again?
In what city would you find Wembley Stadium?
Who acquired an estimated net worth of $30 billion by selling cocaine?
What planet is known as the "Red Planet"?
Who played the role of Indiana Jones's estranged father in "The Last Crusade"?
What does TKO mean in boxing?
What company released the Walkman in 1979?
How many bones do sharks have?
In the Bible, what did God create from Adam's rib?
What is the largest landlocked country in the world?
In what country would you find the city of Plzen, from which Pilsner beer takes its name?
What African animal gathers in troops led by an alpha male known as a "silverback"?
What TV sitcom had the theme song "I'll Be There For You"?
Which Williams sister has won more Grand Slam titles?
What university was Mark Zuckerburg attending when he created Facebook?
What comic book company owns the rights to Superman and Batman?
Which Stephen King novel takes place mostly in the fictional Overlook Hotel?
What item of furniture can go after foot, toad, and bar?
What component of the atom has no electric charge?
Which country has the most islands (12) with a population of a least one million?
What sportsman has the nickname CR7?
In what country was Elon Musk born?
What gas makes soda bubbly?
With a population of under 400,000, what founding member of NATO remains the smallest of the member nations?
What car company was started in 1963 to compete with Ferarri?
What notable battle took place in Belgium in 1815?
What were Pavarotti, Domingo, and Carreras known as collectively?
Minsk is the capital of which European country?
In what sport do international teams try to win the Davis Cup?
In what modern-day country did the Anglo-Zulu war take place?
In the film "Cast Away", what company does Tom Hanks work for?
Who owns Springfield's local tavern in "The Simpsons"?
What building did King Kong scale in the original 1933 movie?
What prize was awarded to Pakistani teenager Malala Yousafzai in 2014, who became the youngest person to win it?
